`Unknown thread id` is returned during SQL execution
===============================================

Symptom
-------------------------

The OBServer node reports the `Unknown thread id` error for the `UPDATE` statement executed in ODC.

Possible causes
-------------------------

You can troubleshoot such issues in the following sequence: ODC or the database driver > Nginx or F5 > ODPs > OBServer nodes.

The default SQL query timeout period for database connections in ODC is 60s. However, the `UPDATE` statement takes about 70 seconds. Consequently, the driver determines that the statement times out and sends `kill query` command to the OBServer node through ODP.

The `id` field in the `kill query` command sent by the driver is the `id` field in the `ODP Client connection` response returned when the backend establishes the request. The `id` field is maintained within the ODP and is not shared among ODP nodes.

When ODC accesses the backend ODP cluster by using the NGINX/F5 address, the ODP that receives the `kill query` request is not the ODP connected to the OceanBase database. If the driver cannot obtain the correct `id` field, the `unknown thread id` error is returned.

Affected versions
--------------------------

All versions of client ODC and web ODC

Solutions
---------------------

* ODC versions earlier than V4.1.0

   Increase the **SQL query timeout** value in the ODC connection configuration to prevent the kill query action for a timeout at the driver layer.

* ODC V4.1.0 and later

   Set the query timeout in the session variable `ob_query_timeout`.