Client ODC startup failure or no response
=================================

**Symptom**
-----------------

Client ODC stalls on the loading page for more than one minute.

**Possible causes**
-----------------

* The local port is disabled on the firewall.

* The system has historical ODC processes.

* The Java version is incompatible.

**Solutions**
-----------------

### **Local port disabled on the firewall**

1. Disable the firewall.

2. If the firewall cannot be disabled, ensure that at least one of the ports 8989-8999, 9989-9999, 10089-10099, 120 89-12099 is available, and specify the ODC port number by setting the environment variable `ODC_PORT` (in ODC of versions earlier than V4.0.0) or `ODC_MAPPING_PORT` (in ODC V4.0.0 and later).

### **Historical ODC processes in the system**

1. Go to **Task Manager**, close all ODC-related processes, and restart Task Manager to ensure that all ODC-related processes are closed.

2. Restart ODC.

### **Incompatible Java version**

Make sure that the local Java version is later than 1.8.0_200.

### **Other solutions**

If the preceding solutions do not work, contact OceanBase Technical Support and provide relevant logs.

#### Log directory of ODC V3.3.0 and later

* macOS: the `server` and `client` folders in the `~/Library/Application Support/odc/logs` directory, where `~` is usually `/Users/{username}`.

* Windows: the `server` and `client` folders in the `%USERPROFILE%\AppData\Roaming\odc\logs` directory, where `%USERPROFILE%` is usually `C:\Users\{username}\`.

#### Log directory of ODC 2.3.0 to 3.2.x

* macOS: the `logs` and `javaLog` folders in the `~/Library/Application Support/odc` directory, where `~` is usually `/Users/{username}`.

* Windows: the `logs` and `javaLog` folders in the `%USERPROFILE%\AppData\Roaming\odc` directory, where `%USERPROFILE%` is usually `C:\Users\{username}\`.

#### Log directory of ODC 2.2.x and earlier

* macOS: the `logs` and `javaLog` folders in the `/Users/{user}/Library/Application Support/odc-sql-console/logs` directory

* Windows: `%USERPROFILE%\AppData\Roaming\odc-sql-console\logs`, where `%USERPROFILE%` is usually `C:\Users\{username}\`.
