Preparations before deployment 
===================================================

Before you deploy OceanBase Developer Center (ODC), you must prepare the MetaDB and the server. After ODC is deployed, log on to Web ODC in Google Chrome. 

MetaDB 
---------------------------

The MetaDB stores connections created by users in ODC and user data generated in ODC after operations such as script execution. You must get the MetaDB (in MySQL mode of OceanBase Database) ready before you deploy Web ODC. The MetaDB of Client ODC is automatically created when you use Client ODC for the first time. Therefore, you do not need to manually prepare the MetaDB for Client ODC. 

**Procedure:** 

1. Apply for a tenant in MySQL mode of OceanBase Database. Allocate 2 CPU cores and 8 GB of memory to the tenant. You can name the tenant as you like. This topic uses the cluster name of odc_cluster and the tenant name of odc_tenant as an example. 

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
      <h4>Note</h4>
      <ul>
      <li>ODC V3.3.0 and later versions provide management capabilities for enterprises, such as change process and operation audit.</li>
      <li>For ODC V3.3.1 and later versions, there is no restriction on MetaDB versions.</li>
      <li>2C8G or a higher configuration is recommended for the OceanBase tenant of MetaDB. A low configuration may cause performance problems.</li>
      </ul>
   </main>      
   

   
   

2. Create a database in the tenant as the MetaDB, and then create a user to access this MetaDB. You can set the MetaDB name, username, and password as you like. This topic uses odc_metadb as the sample MetaDB name. Both the database username and password are obodc.

   

3. Note down the name of the MetaDB, the username, the password, the tenant name, and the cluster name, which will be passed as parameters during the deployment of ODC.

   




Server 
---------------------------

The server on which Web ODC is deployed must be configured based on the number of ODC users:

| Number of ODC users | Server type|Quantity of servers|Minimum functional configuration|Minimum performance configuration|
| ------------- |-------------   |-------------|-------------|-------------|
| 20  |  ODC Docker deployment server |1. <br>You can also use the OCP server as the ODC Docker deployment server.|2 CPU cores and 8 GB of memory|4 CPU cores and 16 GB of memory|
| 100 |  ODC Docker deployment server |3 . <br>You can also use the OCP server as the ODC Docker deployment server.|4 CPU cores and 16 GB of memory|8 CPU cores and 32 GB of memory|
| 500 |ODC Docker deployment server|3 . <br>You can also use the OCP server as the ODC Docker deployment server.|8 CPU cores and 32 GB of memory|16 CPU cores and 64 GB of memory|

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
   <h4>Note</h4>
   <ul>
   <li>The actual resource consumption depends on the number of concurrent users and the functions used by users. The configurations in the table are empirical values for reference.</li>
   <li>If the high-availability capability of Web ODC is required, multiple servers need to be deployed. For details, see <a href="4.deploy-the-ha-odc/1.ha-odc-deployment-process.md">Deploy ODC in high availability mode</a>.</li>
   <li>To enable the lightweight deployment, ODC uses a container image. Make sure that Docker is installed on the server so that you can pull and run the image.</li>
   </ul>
</main>

Browser 
----------------------------

We recommend that you use Google Chrome 78 or later to access Web ODC.

Configure whitelist 
----------------------------------------

For ODC V3.3.1 and later versions, the whitelist configuration feature is added for defense against server-side request forgery (SSRF) attacks: To configure a whitelist, connect to MetaDB of ODC as the deployment administrator, access this connection, and execute ``UPDATE config_system_configuration SET `value`='x.x.x.x' WHERE `key` = 'odc.connect.host-white-list';``. The whitelist can contain multiple IP addresses separated with commas, but does not support CIDR blocks.

Install and run the Docker container 
---------------------------------------------------------

For more information about how to install and run the Docker container, see [Use bind mounts](https://docs.docker.com/storage/bind-mounts/).
