Overview 
=============================

A table consists of rows and columns. Each column is called a field, and the title of each column is called the field name. A row contains several columns of information, and a row of data is called a record. A database table consists of one or more records. A table without records is called an empty table. A table usually has one primary key that uniquely identifies each record. 

Log on to OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) and click the name of the target connection to go to the corresponding connection management page. You can click **Table** in the left-side navigation pane to get a list of tables. You can double-click a table name in the table list to go to the table management page. On this page, you can view and modify the table data on the **Data** tab, and view the basic information, columns, partitions, indexes, constraints, and DDL statements of the table on the **Attribute** tab. 
**Notice**



The root@sys user privileges are required to view partition information. This requires that you set the root@sys user in Advanced Configuration during connection creation.

The database version must meet the following requirements:


|             Database              |          Version          |
|-----------------------------------|---------------------------|
| OceanBase Database in Oracle mode | V2.0.0 or a later version |
| OceanBase Database in MySQL mode  | V1.4.1 or a later version |



This chapter describes in different topics the operations you can perform on table objects in ODC.

* [Create a table](6.web-odc-user-guide/11.web-odc-database-objects/1.web-odc-table-objects/2.web-odc-create-a-table.md)

  

* [Table list](6.web-odc-user-guide/11.web-odc-database-objects/1.web-odc-table-objects/3.web-odc-table-list.md)

  

* [Manage table attributes](6.web-odc-user-guide/11.web-odc-database-objects/1.web-odc-table-objects/4.web-odc-manage-table-attributes.md)

  

* [Manage table data](6.web-odc-user-guide/11.web-odc-database-objects/1.web-odc-table-objects/5.web-odc-manage-table-data.md)

  



