Preparations before upgrade 
================================================

Before you deploy OceanBase Developer Center (ODC), you must prepare the MetaDB and the server. 

MetaDB 
---------------------------

The MetaDB was created when you deploy Web ODC to store user data that is generated during operation. 

To upgrade ODC, you can use the same MetaDB as you deployed and run the ODC image of the target version.Before the upgrade, check the name of the MetaDB tenant, name of the cluster to which the tenant belongs, database name, username, and password. 

 <main id="notice" type='explain'>
   <h4>Note</h4>
   <ul>
   <li>ODC V3.3.0 and later versions provide management capabilities for enterprises, such as change process and operation audit. For Web ODC, the version of MetaDB must be OceanBase Database V2.2.76 or later. Otherwise, the startup will fail due to verification failures.</li>
   <li>For ODC V3.3.1 and later versions, there is no restriction on MetaDB versions.</li>
   <li>2C8G or a higher configuration is recommended for the OceanBase tenant of MetaDB. A low configuration may cause performance problems.</li>
   </ul>
</main>  




Server 
---------------------------

The server that runs Web ODC must be configured based on the number of ODC users:

| Number of ODC users | Server type|Quantity of servers|Minimum functional configuration|Minimum performance configuration|
| ------------- |-------------   |-------------|-------------|-------------|
| 20  |  ODC Docker deployment server |1. <br>You can also use the OCP server as the ODC Docker deployment server.|2 CPU cores and 8 GB of memory|4 CPU cores and 16 GB of memory|
| 100 |  ODC Docker deployment server |3 . <br>You can also use the OCP server as the ODC Docker deployment server.|4 CPU cores and 16 GB of memory|8 CPU cores and 32 GB of memory|
| 500 |ODC Docker deployment server|3 . <br>You can also use the OCP server as the ODC Docker deployment server.|8 CPU cores and 32 GB of memory|16 CPU cores and 64 GB of memory|

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
   <h4>Note</h4>
   <ul>
   <li>The actual resource consumption depends on the number of concurrent users and the functions used by users. The configurations in the table are empirical values ​​for reference.</li>
   <li>The server that runs Web ODC must be configured with the preceding resource specifications. Therefore, you need to check the server before upgrading ODC. </li>
   <li>To upgrade ODC, you need to re-obtain and run the ODC image on the server. Make sure that Docker is installed and can run normally on the server before the upgrade.</li>
   </ul>
</main>
