# Release Note

#RNDate#2022-10-21

OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) V4.0.0 released in October 2022 mainly adapts to new features of OceanBase Database V4.0.0 and OceanBase Community Edition V4.0.0. ODC V4.0.0 supports automatic partitioning plans and shadow table synchronization, and optimizes features such as interaction in connection creation and PL object parameter configuration.

## About this version

* **Current version:** V4.0.0

* **Previous version:** V3.4.0

* **Version release date:** October 21, 2022

* **Supported upgrade path:** ODC V2.0.0 and later versions can be directly upgraded to this version.




## Version compatibility

The general features of ODC V4.0.0 support OceanBase Database of the following versions:

   * OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition V1.4.x (mainly V1.4.7)

   * OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition V2.0.x

   * OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition V2.1.x

   * OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition V2.2.x (mainly V2.2.7)

   * OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition V3.1.x (mainly V3.1.2)

   * OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition V3.2.x (mainly V3.2.4)

   * OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition V4.0.0

   * OceanBase Database Community Edition




* The PL-related features of ODC V4.0.0 support OceanBase Database of the following versions:

   * Compilation of PL objects (function, stored procedure, and package): OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition V2.2.7, V3.0.x, and later (V3.2.3 BP4 and later recommended for better debugging performance)
   
   * Debugging of PL objects (function and stored procedure) and anonymous blocks: OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition V2.2.7, V3.0.x, and later (V3.2.3 BP4 and later recommended for better debugging performance)

   * Running of PL objects (function, stored procedure, and package) and anonymous blocks: OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition V2.0.x and later


## Updates of deployment requirements

The environment variable name of the ODC mapping port number is changed from `ODC_PORT` to `ODC_MAPPING_PORT`, which is used to specify the port number when ODC is running, avoiding the problem that the port number cannot be used due to the deployment environment. This parameter is suitable for port mapping when deploying ODC in Docker.

## Feature updates

* Data source adaptation

   * Supports OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition V4.0.0 and OceanBase Database Community Edition V4.0.0.


* Shadow table synchronization

   * Added the shadow table synchronization feature, which supports the automatic creation and synchronization of shadow table schemas in the same database according to the table schema of the source table.

   * Supports all versions of OceanBase MySQL mode.

   * Supports selecting the generation method of the shadow table name, and you can choose to add a prefix or suffix.

   * Supports the preview of the source table schema, shadow table schema, and schema changes.

   * Supports the batch skip and unskip of shadow table synchronization projects.


* Partitioning plan

   * Added the partitioning plan feature, which supports automatic precreation and deletion of expired Range partitions and Range Columns partitions.

   * Supports all versions of OceanBase MySQL mode.

   * Supports custom partitioning strategies. You can specify the number of partitions, partitioning interval, retention period, and naming rules.

* Collaboration

   * The ODC change process now supports the approval flow of Alibaba Group's Business Process Management Software (BPMS).

   * Batch check of APIs is now added to external SQL check.


* Interaction when creating a connection

   * Supports saving a connection without entering the database account password.

   * Optimized the interaction of sys tenant account settings.

   * Optimized the interaction when testing or saving a connection, showing specific error messages.

   * Optimized the GUI.

* OceanBase Cloud

   * Lifted the restrictions of Alibaba Cloud's POP gateway on the size of the request and returned data, and solved the problem that long SQL statements cannot be executed in the public cloud.


* PL objects

   * Supports setting a parameter to DEFAULT, NULL, or Empty String when debugging a PL object



## Fixed issues

* Database objects

   * Fixed the bug that the system view cannot be displayed in the `information_schema` database.

   * Fixed the bug that table schemas in the `oceanbase` database cannot be viewed.

   * Fixed the bug that an error is displayed when the RANGE-partitioning expression contains a function.

   * When you create a table, the execution of the SQL statement no longer fails if the partition name contains special characters.

   * When you create a table, the number of hash partitions must now be an integer.

   * An error is no longer returned when you view a temporary table in an Oracle tenant of OceanBase Database.

   * Fixed the bug that the check items of a view are read-only, but displayed as `NONE` in an Oracle tenant of OceanBase Database.

   * A schema error is no longer reported when you view tables in a MySQL tenant in OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition V2.2.77 or earlier.

   * Fixed the bug that the `NULL` values cannot be identified when debugging a PL object.

   * Fixed the bug that PL object creation in the SQL window fails in some scenarios.


* Tools

   * Fixed the error that the command line window fails to open when the connection password contains special characters.

   * Fixed the bug that, when importing CSV files, data cleanup before the import does not take effect.

   * Fixed the bug that an error is reported when viewing the import and export task logs due to an incorrect sys account password.




* Change process

   * Fixed the bug that scheduled execution of an import task may fail in multi-node deployment.


* Security hardening

   * Upgraded spring-security and other third-party dependencies to fix some security vulnerabilities.

   * Fixed the bug that file extension detection does not take effect when uploading a file.


* Other modules

   * Fixed the bug that no error is reported upon disconnection during SQL statement execution.

   * Fixed the bug that the INSERT/UPDATE statement variables generated by dragging and dropping table objects are displayed as original labels.

   * Fixed the bug that, when the execution of a single statement fails, the entire line is highlighted to indicate the error.

   * Fixed the bug that the page crashes when editing or formatting very long SQL statements in the SQL window.


## Known issues

* The floating-point precision is lost when exporting Float data.

* The ODC client cannot be installed in a directory whose name contains Chinese characters.

* The exported data file and content are incorrectly displayed when the table contains virtual columns.

* The SQL statement generated is incorrect because not all primary partition keys are included in the global unique index.

* In web ODC, the maximum size of schema or data imported in a batch cannot exceed 2 GB, and files that exceed the limit cannot be uploaded.


* In web ODC, the maximum size of schema or data exported in a batch cannot exceed 2 GB. Exceeding the limit will cause the final export data to be incomplete.

* OceanBase Database Enterprise Version V4.0.0 and OceanBase Database Community Edition V4.0.0 do not support data import or export.

* In the details of an export task, the total number of data records of the exported object depends on the views of OceanBase Database and is not an accurate value.

* The `ob_enable_trace_log` parameter must be set to `on`. Otherwise, only the execution plan of the first executed SQL statement will be displayed.