ODC V3.3.2 
===============================

OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) V3.3.2 released in June 2022 provides integration with external systems as a product and the capability to identify version downgrade. The new version also updates procedural language (PL) object management, PL debugging, SQL execution, and interactive optimization such as import and export.

Version information 
----------------------------------------

* **Current version:** V3.3.2

  

* **Previous version:** V3.3.1

  

* **Version release date** : June 30, 2022

  

* **Supported upgrade path:** You can directly upgrade ODC V2.0.0 and later to this version.

  




Supported OceanBase Database versions 
----------------------------------------------------------

ODC V3.3.2 is applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions: 

* General ODC features are applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions:

  * OceanBase Database V1.4.x (mainly V1.4.79)

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V2.0.x

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V2.1.x

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V2.2.x (mainly V2.2.77)

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V3.1.x (mainly V3.1.2)

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V3.2.x (mainly V3.2.4)

    
  
  * OceanBase Database Community Edition, which does not support the PL capabilities of ODC

    
  

  

* The PL capabilities of ODC are applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions:

  * OceanBase Database V2.2.7x, V3.0, and later support the compilation of PL functions, stored procedures, and packages, the debugging of PL functions and stored procedures, and the debugging of anonymous blocks.

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V2.0.x and later support the running of anonymous blocks and PL functions, stored procedures, and packages.

    
  

  




Updates of deployment requirements 
-------------------------------------------------------

ODC V3.3.2 and later do not support the version downgrade. If a version downgrade is identified, an error is returned.

Feature updates 
------------------------------------

* SQL execution

  * If tables involved in an SQL statement are available in the oceanbase or information_schema database, autocomplete is supported for the names of the tables when a user edits the SQL statement in the SQL window.

    
  

  

* PL objects

  * You can compile the following PL objects in batches: functions, stored procedures, and packages.

    
  
  * You can filter PL objects by status.

    
  
  * You can view the DDL statements of a PL object and download them in a file to your local device.

    
  

  

* PL debugging

  * The debugging process and logic are improved to support some scenarios that were not supported.

    
  

  

* Interactive optimization

  * The name of a connection is displayed in the format of \`{connection name}@{database name}\` on the browser tab of web ODC or in the window of the ODC client.

    
  
  * The SQL statements with errors are recorded in import task logs.

    
  
  * On the Session Management page, you can move the pointer over the SQL column of a session to view the SQL statements of the session in full.

    
  
  * When the execution of SQL statements in an SQL window times out, a prompt is displayed and indicates that the index is possibly being created.

    
  
  * When you edit permissions for a role, you must grant at least one public resource permission to the role.

    
  

  

* System integration

  * The account, authorization, authentication, and audit (4A) management system of China Mobile is integrated with web ODC.

    
  
  * Bastion host integration with web ODC is supported in this version. To be specific, an external account service is integrated to implement automatic log on, and connection parameters are passed through the URL so that the SQL window can be directly displayed.

    
  

  




Fixed issues 
---------------------------------

* PL objects

  * The debugging process and logic are improved to support some scenarios that were not supported. Note that you need to upgrade OBServer to V3.2.3.

    
  
  * The compilation process is enhanced to fix some issues, such as inaccurate compilation error reporting and absence of line numbers in the reported errors. Note that you need to upgrade OBServer to V3.2.3.

    
  

  

* Database objects

  * Tables, views, and PL objects are not alphabetically sorted.

    
  
  * An error is returned when you try to view some partitioned tables.

    
  
  * The error message is not displayed when an error occurs during sequence editing.

    
  

  

* SQL execution

  * In Oracle mode, ROWID is absent from UPDATE statements that are generated by using the results of SELECT \* FROM TABLE without a UNIQUE constraint as update values.

    
  
  * In Oracle mode, an error is returned when a PL statement is executed after the delimiter is changed.

    
  
  * In a result set, the text of a selected CLOB result cannot be copied if you zoom in on the text.

    
  

  

* Import and export

  * In Windows, an error occurs when you import a ZIP file into ODC.

    
  

  

* Other modules

  * The modification timestamp is not updated after you modify a user or a role.

    
  
  * The Session Variable page may crash in some scenarios.

    
  

  




Known issues 
---------------------------------

* OBServers of the Arm architecture do not support the debugging of PL objects.

  

* Debugging of PL objects that contain composite data types such as cursors, records, and collections and user-defined data types is not supported.

  

* Debugging of PL objects that contain CLOB variables causes the OBServer to generate a core dump.

  

* The size of a structure or data to be exported cannot exceed 2 GB. Otherwise, the exported structure or data will be incomplete.

  

* In the details of export tasks, the total number of records of the exported objects is not accurate but depends on the views of OceanBase Database.

  

* The size of a structure or data to be imported cannot exceed 2 GB. Otherwise, the file cannot be uploaded.

  

* Unless you set the `ob_enable_trace_log` parameter to `on`, only the execution plans of the SQL statements executed for the first time are displayed.

#RNDate#2022-06-30


