ODC V3.2.3 
===============================

OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) V3.2.3 released in January 2022 is updated in terms of password security, deployment, and upgrade, and replaces the New Feature Introduction module with the Features module. The topic describes the updates of modules and features. 

Version information 
----------------------------------------

* **Current version:** V3.2.3

  

* **Previous version:** V3.2.2

  

* **Version release date:** January 6, 2022

  

* **Supported upgrade path:** You can directly upgrade ODC V2.0.0 and later to this version.

  




Supported OceanBase Database versions 
----------------------------------------------------------

ODC V3.2.3 is applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions: 

* General ODC features are applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions:

  * OceanBase Database V1.4.x (mainly V1.4.79)

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V2.0.x (mainly V2.2.30)

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V2.1.x (mainly V2.2.77)

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V2.2.x

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V3.1.x

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V3.2.x

    
  
  * OceanBase Database Community Edition, which does not support the PL capabilities of ODC

    
  

  

* The PL capabilities of ODC are applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions:

  * OceanBase Database V2.2.7x, V3.0, and later support the compilation of PL functions, stored procedures, and packages, the debugging of PL functions and stored procedures, and the debugging of anonymous blocks.

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V2.0.x and later support the running of anonymous blocks and PL functions, stored procedures, and packages.

    
  

  




Feature updates 
------------------------------------

* Optimized interaction experience:

  * The **New Feature Introduction** module is replaced with the **Features** module.
    
  
  * The Features module is displayed depending on whether you log on to ODC for the first time.

    * By default, the Features dialog box is displayed on the home page if you log on to ODC for the first time.

      
    
    * The Features dialog box is not displayed on the home page since your second logon. You can choose Help \> Features in the upper-right corner of the page to open the Features dialog box.

      
    

    
  
  * Password security: The problem that the logon password is displayed in plaintext when the browser is switched to the debugging mode is fixed.

    
  

  




Fixed issues 
---------------------------------

* Connection session

  * If you are not granted the DBA privileges in Oracle mode, the connection session may be interrupted during a query.

    
  
  * The modifications to parameters on the Session Properties tab do not take effect on the corresponding features in the SQL window.

    
  
  * The autocommit parameter is not automatically synchronized.

    
  

  

* Database object management

  * If you click Attribute after you select View Table Structure, the table frame shakes.

    
  
  * If the name of a database in MySQL mode contained a hyphen (-), information about the objects in the database cannot be displayed.

    
  
  * If a stored procedure in Oracle mode contains a for loop, a parsing error occurs and causes the execution and debugging to fail.

    
  
  * If a function contains parameters of the same type but with different names, the function cannot be overloaded.

    
  
  * Some stored procedures with comments are incorrectly parsed and cannot be executed.

    
  
  * If you enter an extra-long numeric value when you edit a result set, it causes the loss of precision.

    
  

  

* Import and export

  * The exported table data contains ROWID.

    
  
  * If you upload over 200 files in one data import task, the task may get stuck.

    
  
  * When a DML statement is generated by editing the result set of a query that contains a database name, data cannot be updated because the DML statement does not contain the database name.

    
  
  * In some scenarios, an import error occurs because the imported columns of a CSV file are disordered.

    
  

  

* Command-line window

  * If the content that you paste to the command-line window exceeds 8 KB in size, the connection becomes disconnected.

    
  
  * The Windows Desktop command-line window cannot be opened.

    
  

  

* Other modules

  * Some error messages are not in English.

    
  
  * Large files cannot be uploaded in Nginx configuration.

    
  
  * Simulated data does not support not-null columns in OceanBase Database V3.x or later.

    
  
  * In Oracle mode, the values displayed in a DATE type result set are suffixed with `.0`.

    
  

  




Known issues 
---------------------------------

* OBServers of the x86 architecture do not support the debugging of functions with output parameters.

  

* OBServers of the ARM architecture do not support the debugging of PL objects.

  

* Debugging of PL objects that contain composite data types such as cursors, records, and collections and user-defined data types is not supported.

  

* Debugging of PL objects that contain the CLOB data type causes the OBServer to generate a core dump.

  

* The size of a schema or data to be exported cannot exceed 2 GB. Otherwise, the exported data will be incomplete.

  

* In the details of export tasks, the total number of records of the exported objects is not accurate but depends on the views of OceanBase Database.

  

* The size of a schema or data to be imported cannot exceed 2 GB. Otherwise, the file cannot be uploaded.

  

* Unless you set the `ob_enable_trace_log` parameter to `on`, only the execution plans of the SQL statements executed for the first time are displayed.






