Deployment overview 
========================================

ODC is an enterprise-level database development platform tailored for OceanBase Database. ODC adopts the mature browser/server architecture and is accessible through either the Web or client version. 

This topic shows you how to deploy the web version of ODC. The client version does not need deployment and you can use it directly after installation. For more information about installing the client, see [Install ODC](../7.client-odc-user-guide/1.client-odc-install-odc.md). 

Single-node deployment 
-------------------------------------------

In single-node deployment, only one ODC node is deployed. This node handles all user requests. This deployment is simple and consumes fewer resources.

High-availability deployment 
-------------------------------------------------

In high-availability deployment, the ODC application is deployed on several server nodes. NGINX is installed on one of the servers as a reverse proxy to handle user requests. Therefore, in single-node deployment, user requests are sent directly to the ODC application, while in high-availability deployment, user requests are first sent to the server where NGINX is deployed, and are then directed to the ODC application on different servers. 

One benefit of high-availability deployment is service continuity. If one node is down, NGINX automatically forwards the traffic to other nodes. In addition, high-availability deployment supports more concurrent users and handles more requests than single-node deployment.
