Preparations before deployment 
===================================================
#docslug#/oceanbase-developer-center/odc/V3.2.2/preparations-before-deployment
Before you deploy ODC, you must prepare the MetaDB and the server. After ODC is deployed, log on to Web ODC in Google Chrome. 

MetaDB 
---------------------------

The MetaDB stores data generated when users use ODC, such as those generated when you create a connection or script. You must get the MetaDB (in MySQL mode of OceanBase Database) ready before you deploy the web version of ODC. The MetaDB of the ODC client is automatically created when you use the ODC client the first time. Therefore, you do not need to manually prepare MetaDB for the ODC client. 

**Procedure:** 

1. Apply for a tenant in MySQL mode of OceanBase Database V1.4 or a later. Allocate 1 CPU core and 4 GB of memory to the tenant. You can name the tenant as you like. This topic uses the cluster name of odc_cluster and the tenant name of odc_tenant as an example.

   

2. Create a database in the tenant as the MetaDB, and then create a user to access this MetaDB. You can set the MetaDB name, username, and password as you like. This topic uses odc_metadb as the sample MetaDB name. Both the database username and password are obodc.

   

3. Note down the name of the MetaDB, the username, the password, the tenant name, and the cluster name, which will be passed as parameters during the deployment of ODC.

   




Server 
---------------------------

The server on which the web version of ODC is deployed must have at least 2 CPU cores and 4 GB of memory. We recommend that you use servers with 4 CPU cores and 8 GB memory in the production environment. 

To enable the lightweight deployment, ODC uses a container image. Make sure that Docker is installed on the server so that you can pull and run the image.

Browser 
----------------------------

We recommend that you use Google Chrome 78 or later to access Web ODC.
