Deployment process 
=======================================

To deploy OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) in high-availability deployment mode, you can load and run the ODC image on multiple servers. Then, you can deploy the NGINX image on one of these servers to distribute user requests among them. 

The high-availability deployment of ODC requires four steps:

1. [Load and run an ODC image](../4.deploy-the-ha-odc/2.load-and-run-ha-odc-images.md): Run the ODC image separately on multiple nodes to install ODC.

   

2. [Deploy SSL certificate](../4.deploy-the-ha-odc/3.deploy-ssl-certificates.md): When you log on to Web ODC in a browser over HTTP for the first time, you will receive a message indicating that the connection is not secure. To ensure access security, you can deploy an SSL certificate to access ODC over HTTPS. If you do not want to access ODC over HTTPS, you can skip this step and directly deploy NGINX.

   

3. [Deploy the NGINX proxy](../4.deploy-the-ha-odc/4.deploy-nginx-proxy.md): Pull and run the NGINX image on one of the nodes to implement high-availability deployment.

   

4. [Configure certificate trust](../4.deploy-the-ha-odc/5.configure-certificate-trust.md): Some browsers do not trust a self-signed certificate. You need to manually configure certificate trust in the browser. 

   > **Note** <br>
   > - The default username and password can be obtained from the administrator.<br>
   > - For the administrator, the default username is admin, and the default password is aaAA 11__.

     
    For more information about how to log on to Web ODC, see User Guide (Web ODC) > Log on to ODC > Log on to ODC with an account.
     
   

   
   






