# Data cleanup

## Background information

ODC allows you to delete data in the source database after it is archived in the destination database. This improves database query performance and reduces online storage costs.

This topic describes how to clean up archived data by submitting a data cleanup ticket.

## Prerequisites

The tables to be cleaned up contain primary keys.

## Create a data archive task

Assume that you want to clear the `student` table in the `odc_test` database.

| Parameter | Example value |
| ------ | ------ |
| Data Source | mysql_4.2.0 |
| Source Database Name | odc_test |
| Table Name | student |

1. In the left-side navigation pane on the SQL development page, click **Tasks** and choose **Data Cleanup** > **Create Data Cleanup Task**.


2. On the **Create Data Cleanup Task** page, specify the following parameters.


   | Parameter | Description |
   |--------|-------|
   | Source Database | Select the database to which the table belongs.  |
   | Variable Configuration | You can specify filtering conditions to archive only desired rows. For example, you can use the condition `create_time < '${bizdate}`, where `bizdate` is the task execution time by default. You can configure the offset in the frontend.  |
   | Cleanup Scope | Select **Partial Tables** or **All Tables** to clear some or all archived tables in the database.  |
   | Operation Mode | Select **Execute Immediately**, **Timed Execution**, or **Periodic Execution**.  |
   | Remarks | The description of the change. The description can contain up to 200 characters. This parameter is optional.  |
3. Click **Create**.

4. After the task is generated, you can view the task information in the **Data Cleanup Task** list on the **Tasks** page.


## View data cleanup tasks

### Task information

1. In the data cleanup task list in the **Task Center** page, click **View** in the **Actions** column.

2. In the **Task Details** panel, click the **Task Information** tab to view the task type, source database, destination database, variable configuration, archive scope, and execution method.

### Task process


In the **Task Details** panel, click the **Task Process** tab to view the task status, approval status, execution status, and execution result of the task.


### Execution records

In the **Task Details** panel, click the **Execution Records** tab to view the task status and perform retry or rollback operations.

### Task logs


In the **Task Details** panel, click the **Operating Records** tab to view the approval status and records of the task.


## References

- [Archive data](1.data-archiving.md)