# ODC V4.1.0

OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) V4.1.0 released in January 2023 provides new features of SQL check and automatic running, and updates features such as the management of connections, permissions, and table objects, SQL window, data import and export, and interactive interface.

## Version information

* **Current version:** V4.1.0

* **Previous version:** V4.0.2

* **Version release date:** January 12, 2023

* **Supported upgrade path:** You can directly upgrade ODC V2.0.0 and later to this version.




## Supported OceanBase Database versions

ODC V4.1.0 is applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions:

* General ODC features are applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions:

   * OceanBase Database V1.4.x (mainly V1.4.7)

   * OceanBase Database V2.0.x

   * OceanBase Database V2.1.x

   * OceanBase Database V2.2.x (mainly V2.2.7)

   * OceanBase Database V3.1.x (mainly V3.1.2)

   * OceanBase Database V3.2.x (mainly V3.2.4)

   * OceanBase Database V4.0.0

   * OceanBase Database Community Edition




* The PL capabilities of ODC are applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions:

   * OceanBase Database V2.2.7, V3.0.x, and later support the compilation of PL functions, stored procedures, and packages, the debugging of PL functions and stored procedures, and the debugging of anonymous blocks. We recommend that you use OceanBase Database V3.2.3 BP4 or later for better debugging performance.

   * OceanBase Database V2.0.x and later support the running of anonymous blocks and PL functions, stored procedures, and packages.



## Feature updates


* SQL check

   * SQL specification check is supported when you edit SQL statements in the SQL window, create database change tasks, and create tables.

* Automatic running

   * SQL plan tasks are supported. ODC can periodically execute SQL scripts created by users to complete database development and O&M tasks as required by the users.

* Permission management

   * Automatic authorization rules are added. The administrator of the public resource console can automatically assign specific roles or permissions to users that meet specified conditions when they log on for the first time or when they are created, which avoids redundant authorization. For example, the administrator can authorize users whose name, organization or department, or logon method meets specified judgment conditions.

   * Permission management can be performed for public connections in the ODC console.

   * Resource management and configuration of system operation permissions can be performed for roles in the ODC console.

* ODC console

   * The access to operation records is moved to the Security Audit menu.


* Result set

   * You can press Shift to select multiple rows in a column.

   * The editable range of the result set is enhanced. If a multi-table join query contains the row ID of a table, the result set is also editable.

* Import and export

   * When you export data by using the ODC client, you can directly export backup files to local directories.

   * OceanBase Database V4.0.0 is supported.

   * During import or export, you can select **Retain Current Configuration** to save the current configuration as the default configuration.

   * Some dependencies on the sys account are removed when table schemas are exported. The import and export of most database objects no longer depend on the sys account. However, you still must log on to the sys account if you want to perform the following operations:

      * Export sequence definitions from a MySQL tenant of OceanBase Database.

      * Export table group definitions from OceanBase Database of a version earlier than V2.2.70.

      * Export index definitions from an Oracle tenant of OceanBase Database V2.2.30 or earlier.

      * Export the partition information of unique indexes from OceanBase Database of a version earlier than V2.2.70.

      * Export unique index definitions of partitioned tables from an Oracle tenant of OceanBase Database V2.2.70 to V4.0.0.0.

* SQL execution

   * You can specify the query timeout period by setting the `ob_query_timeout` session variable.

   * In manual commit mode, ODC V4.0.0 and later display the **Commit** or **Rollback** button for a transaction based on whether the transaction is committed.

   * The Execute SQL metric in the database time consumption part of an execution record is optimized to display accurate time consumed.

   * Rarely used Chinese characters can be displayed in names.

   * When you drag an object to generate the corresponding SQL statement for the first time, the selected statement type is remembered, so that you are no longer prompted to select the statement type.

* Connection management

   * The data organization of the connection list on the homepage is changed.

   * SSL encryption is supported.

   * In the list of public connections, you can pin a connection to the top and add tags to connections.

   * A level-1 menu is provided as the access to historical connections.

* Database objects

   * The number of records in a database table and the data size information are displayed.

* Security hardening

   * Sensitive information may be displayed in plaintext in some scenarios.

   * Spring Cloud Config Server is upgraded to V2.2.6.RELEASE.

   * Jackson-related components are upgraded to V2.14.1.

   * Jettison is upgraded to V1.5.2.

   * The RASS module is integrated with Apsara Stack.

   * The dependency on Java JWT is removed.

   * The dependency on javacsv is removed.

   * Hadoop Common is upgraded to V3.3.3.

   * netty-all is upgraded to V4.1.44.Final.

   * MINA Core is upgraded to 2.1.1.

   * The dependency on the Log4j library is removed.


## Fixed issues

* Task center

   * The execution strategy of processes related to public read-only connections is incorrectly displayed.

   * The details page of processes related to public read-only connections is displayed slow.

   * The refresh of task lists is slow due to the large amount of data of stored tasks.

* Database changes

   * The query results downloaded after the database change task is rolled back are different from those before the rollback.

* Import and export

   * An error is returned when all table groups of the database are exported.

   * The ISO8859-1 character set is not supported in data import or export.

   * When a table that contains floats is exported, the precision of the floats will lose.

* ODC console

   * Permissions on the existing public connections cannot be verified.

* SQL execution

   * SQL statements that contain special characters such as emoji symbols cannot be executed.

   * If the WHERE clause of a SELECT statement contains an asterisk (`*`) and the projected field is specified, an error is reported during the execution.

   * In some PL scenarios, an error is returned when SQL statements executed in the SQL window cannot be correctly separated, and this error cannot be ignored.

   * In OceanBase Database in MySQL mode, the value 0000-00-00 00:00:00 of the DATETIME data type is displayed as NULL.

   * After a DML statement is executed, the number of affected rows is 0.

* Result sets

   * If you desensitize the data when you download the result set, an error is returned when you query the metadata of the result set.

   * When you modify the data in a result set and then cancel the modification, an error is reported after you click OK.

   * If a semicolon (`;`) exists in the data uploaded to a CLOB column, an error is reported when you edit the column.

* Database objects

   * In OceanBase Database earlier than V3.1.2, if the table comment is empty, the following error message is returned when you view the table details: `Unhandled exception`.

   * You cannot view records after the 1000th row of a table or view.

   * When you view the DDL of a table in OceanBase Database in Oracle mode, if the table has a unique index, its DDL contains the CREATE UNIQUE INDEX statement even though the index has already been defined in the CREATE TABLE statement.

   * If you do not have permissions on a MySQL database, errors are reported on data objects such as stored procedures and functions when you access the database.

   * An error is reported when you view table objects in OceanBase Database earlier than V1.4.79.

   * The white screen issue occurs when you view a table or view in OceanBase Database earlier than V2.2.50.

   * When you view a large table or view, the data of the table or view is loaded slow, which may lead to high CPU utilization of the connected OceanBase Database tenant.

   * The table objects that are deleted in the ODC console cannot be removed to the recycle bin when the recycle bin feature is enabled.

   * If the name of the associated table contains an ampersand (`&`) when you create a view, the content after `&` cannot be displayed.

   * If you log on to a MySQL tenant of OceanBase Database to view the properties of a view object in the `information_schema` database, the **Basic Information** section is empty.

   * If the name of a subprogram in a program package contains a Chinese character, the subprogram cannot be displayed in the object structure tree in the left-side navigation pane.

* Shadow tables

   * When you create a project to synchronize shadow tables, if you unselect or select a source table and click Next, the creation process remains in the loading state.

   * A global unique index does not contain all partitioning keys, which results in the generation of incorrect SQL statements.

* PL debugging

   * If subprograms call each other during package debugging, an exception is thrown if you set a breakpoint after the step into action is taken in the debugger.

* User management

   * Users cannot change their own passwords in ODC V4.0.2.



## Known issues

* The ODC client cannot be installed in a directory whose name contains Chinese characters.

* The exported data file and content are incorrectly displayed when the table contains virtual columns.

* In web ODC, the maximum size of schemas or data imported in a batch cannot exceed 2 GB. An oversize file cannot be uploaded.

* In web ODC, the maximum size of schemas or data exported in a batch cannot exceed 2 GB. The excess part will be lost after the export.

* In the details of an export task, the total number of records of the exported objects is not accurate but depends on the views of OceanBase Database.

* Unless you set the `ob_enable_trace_log` parameter to `on`, only the execution plans of the SQL statements executed for the first time are displayed.