# ODC V4.2.1

OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) V4.2.1 released in October 2023 fixes bugs in ODC V4.2.0 and improves user experience.

## Version information

* **Current version:** V4.2.1

* **Previous version:** V4.2.0

* **Release date:** October 9, 2023

* **Supported upgrade path:** You can directly upgrade ODC V2.0.0 and later to this version.

## Supported OceanBase Database versions

ODC V4.2.1 supports the following OceanBase Database versions.

* General ODC features apply in the following OceanBase Database versions:

   * OceanBase Database V1.4.x (mainly V1.4.7)

   * OceanBase Database V2.0.x

   * OceanBase Database V2.1.x

   * OceanBase Database V2.2.x (mainly V2.2.7)

   * OceanBase Database V3.1.x (mainly V3.1.2)

   * OceanBase Database V3.2.x (mainly V3.2.4)

   * OceanBase Database V4.0.0

   * OceanBase Database V4.1.0

   * OceanBase Database V4.2.0

   * OceanBase Database V4.2.1

   * OceanBase Database Community Edition

* The PL capabilities of ODC apply in the following OceanBase Database versions:

   * OceanBase Database V2.2.7, V3.0.x, and later support the compilation of PL functions, stored procedures, and packages, the debugging of PL functions and stored procedures, and the debugging of anonymous blocks. We recommend that you use OceanBase Database V3.2.3 BP4 or later for better debugging performance.

   * OceanBase Database V2.0.x and later support the running of anonymous blocks and PL functions, stored procedures, and packages.

## Limitations

* Data archiving

   * A cluster instance (specified by the cluster name) must be configured for a data source.

   * A data source must be connected through a proxy. Direct connection is not supported.

   * The sys tenant must be configured in a public cloud environment other than Alibaba Cloud.

   * OceanBase Database V4.1.0 does not support data archiving.

   * Data archiving is supported only for OceanBase Database in MySQL mode.

   * Only tables with a primary key can be archived.

   * Data of the BIT, ENUM, or SET type cannot be archived.

   * Data archiving is not supported if the filter condition contains the LIMIT clause.

   * Tables with a foreign key cannot be archived.

* Automatic generation of SQL statements for rollback

   * SQL statements for rollback can be generated only for UPDATE and DELETE operations.

   * In MySQL mode of OceanBase Database, no SQL statement for rollback can be generated for an UPDATE or DELETE operation performed on a table without a primary key or unique key.

   * No SQL statement for rollback can be generated for a change operation performed on a table with LOB fields.

   * If more than 1 million rows are affected in a database change task that requires a backup rollback plan, the plan will fail to be generated.

   * The size of a backup rollback plan file cannot exceed 256 MB. This is because the maximum size of an SQL script that can be uploaded for a database change task is 256 MB.

   * In Oracle mode of OceanBase Database, if the UPDATE SET and WHERE fields have the same values in an UPDATE scenario, automatic generation of an SQL statement for rollback is not supported.

* Dynamic desensitization

   * Groovy supports only the Objects and String classes in Java.

   * Groovy closures and inherent closure functions are not supported.

* SSO integration

   * Only the authorization-code mode is supported.

   * After a user logs out, only the logon state in ODC is cleared. The logon state in the single sign-on (SSO) system is not cleared.

   * The name of a mapped column must be of the String type.

## Considerations

* Data sources

   * The concept of connection configuration is replaced with data source.

   * The creation of an OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP) data source is not supported in ODC V4.2.1, and will be supported in later versions.

   * Private connections are migrated to the individual workspace and exist as data sources.

   * Public connections are migrated to the team workspace and exist as data sources.

   * For the read-only and read/write accounts in original public connections, only the read/write accounts are retained after the upgrade.

* User privileges

   * Starting from ODC V4.2.0, the private_connection and apply_connection roles are unavailable. In other words, the privileges of the two roles referenced by users no longer take effect after the upgrade to ODC V4.2.x.

   * Starting from ODC V4.2.0, the resource group feature is unavailable.

   * Starting from ODC V4.2.0, connection access privileges are unavailable. In ODC V4.2.x, database access control is implemented through project management.

* System settings

   * Starting from ODC V4.2.0, this feature is unavailable.

* Ticket module

   * Tickets initiated in versions earlier than ODC V4.2.0 can be viewed only on the **Initiated by Me** tab.

* Partitioning plans

   * This feature is upgraded in ODC V4.2.0. In ODC V4.2.x, the historical partitioning plans created in versions earlier than V4.2.0 will stop running.

* SQL plans

   * This feature is upgraded in ODC V4.2.0. In ODC V4.2.x, the historical SQL plans created in versions earlier than V4.2.0 will stop running.

* Task process

   * Starting from ODC V4.2.0, this feature is unavailable. ODC V4.2.x provides the risk level module for equivalent effects.

* Data desensitization

   * This feature is upgraded in ODC V4.2.0. In ODC V4.2.x, the data desensitization configurations created in versions earlier than V4.2.0 no longer take effect.

* Bastion host integration

   * This feature is unavailable in ODC V4.2.1 and will be supported in later versions.

* Session history

   * Starting from ODC V4.2.0, this feature is unavailable. In ODC V4.2.x, the usage status of an SQL window is saved by default.

## Bug fixes

* SQL execution

   * Fixed the issue where no DBMS output is printed when an SQL statement is executed in OceanBase Database of a version earlier than V4.0.0.

   * Fixed the issue where DML statements are generated slowly when a result set is being edited.

* Import and export

   * Fixed the issue where the imported or exported objects are not displayed on the task details page during the execution of a task.

* PL debugging

   * Fixed the issue where a database connection failure occasionally occurs during PL debugging when OceanBase Database is deployed in multi-node mode.

   * Fixed the issue where a database connection error occurs during anonymous block debugging when the schema is in lowercase in Oracle mode of OceanBase Database.

* Data source management

   * Fixed the issue where an error occurs during the execution of an index FLASHBACK statement generated by the recycle bin module.

   * Fixed the issue where the SQL statement being executed in the current session cannot be displayed on the session management page.

   * Fixed the issue where a null pointer exception occurs if the template file contains empty rows or columns during batch import of connections.

   * Fixed the issue where a data source type cannot be selected from the drop-down list during the creation of a data source in Web ODC of a version earlier than V4.2.0.

   * Fixed the issue where databases in other tenants are also displayed during the synchronization of databases in a tenant.

* Data desensitization

   * Fixed the issue where values of sensitive columns are case-insensitive when case-sensitive desensitization is enabled in MySQL mode of OceanBase Database.

   * Fixed the issue where data desensitization does not take effect when the result set is exported.

* Ticket management

   * Fixed the issue where a submitted ticket remains in the **Queuing** state for a long time but no error is returned.

* Third-party integration

   * Fixed the issue where the approval process still tries to obtain a ticket ID from an external approval system even if no external approval node is added.

* SQL check specifications

   * Fixed the issue where ODC cannot check whether a table or column has comments in Oracle mode of OceanBase Database.

* Result set

   * Fixed the issue where data is incorrectly displayed in column mode when the result set is filtered.

* SQL window

   * Fixed the issue where the first matched keyword for a search is deleted in the SQL window.

* Security hardening

   * Fixed the issue where server-side request forgery (SSRF) attacks might occur during third-party integration.

## Known issues

* Client ODC cannot be installed in a directory whose name contains Chinese characters.

* The exported data file and content are incorrectly displayed when the table contains virtual columns.

* In Web ODC, the maximum size of schemas or data imported in a batch cannot exceed 2 GB. Otherwise, the upload cannot be performed.

* In Web ODC, the maximum size of schemas or data exported in a batch cannot exceed 2 GB. The excess part will be lost after the export.

* In the details of an export task, the total number of records of the exported objects is not accurate but depends on the views of OceanBase Database.

* If you do not set the `ob_enable_trace_log` parameter to `on`, only the execution plans of the SQL statements executed for the first time are displayed.

## References

- [ODC Community Edition](https://github.com/oceanbase/odc)

- [ODC Enterprise Edition](https://www.oceanbase.com/product/odc)