# ODC V4.2.3

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
   <h4>Notice</h4>
   <p>Before you upgrade OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) from a version earlier than V4.2.0 to V4.2.3, familiarize yourself with the descriptions in the <a href="../../200.odc-overview/500.product-limits.md">Limitations</a> topic. </p>
</main>

ODC V4.2.3 released in December 2023 enhances the following features:

- **Change risk management**: ODC enhances the ease of use of the change risk management module. In this version, a regular user can request to join a project. Moreover, ODC optimizes the interactive experience during SQL interception.

- **Data lifecycle management**: Log tracing is supported in the ODC console, significantly improving the efficiency in troubleshooting abnormal execution records. You can edit the parameters of scheduled data archiving and data cleanup tasks, facilitating the adjustment of the operation objects, processing logic, and execution cycle of a task.

- **Lock-free schema change**: For OceanBase Database versions that do not support atomic operations such as renaming a table, this ODC version allows you to lock only specified accounts to reduce the impact on businesses during table name switching. You can also choose to manually switch the table name to reduce the operation risks in peak hours. The key information and business status during the change are recorded in logs to facilitate monitoring and troubleshooting.

- **MySQL data source support**: On the basis of support for native MySQL data sources in the previous version, this version further supports import and export for MySQL data sources. You can use ODC to export schemas or data from a MySQL data source and import the exported information back to the MySQL data source.

## Version information

* **Current version**: V4.2.3

* **Previous version**: V4.2.2

* **Release date**: December 25, 2023

* **Supported upgrade path:** You can directly upgrade ODC V2.0.0 and later to this version.

## Feature updates

* Data sources

   - You can create an OceanBase Sharding MySQL data source and perform development operations on the data source.

   - You can bind a data source to a project. After the binding, the changes made in a database in the data source are automatically synchronized to the bound project.

   - You can copy (clone) a data source.

   - You can choose to display the availability status of data sources in the resource tree in the team workspace.

* SQL development

   - Database objects

      - The geographic information system (GIS) field type is supported for OceanBase MySQL and MySQL data sources.

      - When you create or delete an index on the GUI, a prompt indicating that the operation is highly risk is displayed.

   - SQL window

      - You can press a shortcut, which is **Ctrl + Enter** in Windows and **Cmd + Enter** in macOS, the SQL window to run the current statement.

      - The execution plan is expanded by default, which is collapsed by default in earlier versions.

      - The maximum size of a snippet that can be saved is changed to 64 KB.

   - Result set

      - You can click the column header to select all columns of the result set and copy the result set.

      - The update logic of the result set is optimized. If the uniqueness of the records to be updated cannot be ensured, namely the table does not have a ROWID, primary key, or UNIQUE constraint, the update is not supported.

   - End-to-end diagnostics

      - The display of end-to-end diagnostic information is optimized. The execution plans and end-to-end diagnostic information need to be accessed from different entries.

      - For OceanBase Database of a version that does not support end-to-end diagnostics, the entry to end-to-end diagnostics is unavailable with a prompt displayed.

      - You can export end-to-end diagnostic information to a JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) file supported by Jaeger.

      - End-to-end diagnostic information can be displayed in a list view.

   - Import and export

      - You can import/export schemas and data to/from a MySQL data source. If the content to be exported contains sensitive columns, the mask-all algorithm is used for desensitization.

      - The import/export task configuration page for OceanBase data sources no longer provides sys tenant account settings.

* Change risk management

   - More built-in project roles, such as the security administrator and participant roles, are added. The security administrator can manage sensitive columns and participate in the ticket approval process in the project. A participant can participate in the ticket approval process.

   - Users can request to join a project.

   - Approvers can view tickets approved by themselves. The project administrator can view all tickets in the project.

   - A user granted the project DBA or owner role cannot be deleted.

   - An SQL check rule that requires the default field type of an auto-increment primary key column to be BigInt is added to the security specifications.

   - Interactions in intercepting SQL statements that do not comply with the specifications are optimized to facilitate quick locating of specific issues in SQL statements.

   - You can share the details of a ticket in the form of a URL.

* Data lifecycle management

   - Interactions in initiating data cleanup and data archiving tasks are optimized. Specifically, the variable settings section is adjusted.

   - You can view the execution records of data cleanup and data archiving tasks in logs.

   - You can edit the parameters of scheduled data cleanup and data archiving tasks.

   - The data cleanup performance is improved for MySQL 5.6 and OceanBase Database.

   - You can configure scheduling strategies for a partitioning plan task.

* Lock-free schema changes

   - Key steps and status during task execution, such as the session status before and after table name switching, are recorded in task logs.

   - For OceanBase Database of a version that does not support table locking during table name switching, you can lock a specified account and close its sessions.

   - You can manually trigger table name switching.

* Updates of other modules

   - A parameter for revoking the limit on the number of logon failures is provided.

   - If a session is not used for a long time, it will be destroyed, which results in errors and compromises the ease of use. An automatic reconnection mechanism is provided to resolve this issue.

   - SQL check is supported during bastion host integration.

## Considerations

- Data sources

   - In ODC V4.2.0 and later, the concept of connection configuration is replaced with data source.

   - The creation of an OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP) data source is not supported in ODC V4.2.2, and will be supported in later versions.

   - In ODC V4.2.0 and later, private connections are migrated to the individual workspace and exist as data sources.

   - In ODC V4.2.0 and later, public connections are migrated to the team workspace and exist as data sources.

   - In ODC V4.2.0 and later, for the read-only and read/write accounts in original public connections, only the read/write accounts are retained after the upgrade.

- User permissions

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, the private_connection and apply_connection roles are unavailable. In other words, the permissions of the two roles referenced by users no longer take effect after the upgrade to ODC V4.2.x.

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, the resource group feature is obsolete.

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, connection access permissions are obsolete. In ODC V4.2.x, database access control is implemented through project management.

- System settings

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, this feature is obsolete.

- Ticket module

   - Tickets initiated in versions earlier than ODC V4.2.0 can be viewed only on the **Initiated by Me** tab.

- Partitioning plans

   - This feature is upgraded in ODC V4.2.0. After the upgrade to ODC V4.2.x, historical partitioning plans created in versions earlier than V4.2.0 will stop running.

- SQL plans

   - This feature is upgraded in ODC V4.2.0. After the upgrade to ODC V4.2.x, historical SQL plans created in versions earlier than V4.2.0 will stop running.

- Task process

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, this feature is obsolete. ODC V4.2.x provides the risk level module for equivalent effects.

- Data desensitization

   - This feature is upgraded in ODC V4.2.0. After the upgrade to ODC V4.2.x, the data desensitization configurations created in versions earlier than V4.2.0 no longer take effect.

- Bastion host integration

   - In ODC V4.2.2, account integration and automatic data source configuration are supported. At present, SQL approval integration is not supported and will be supported in later versions.

- Session history

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, this feature is obsolete. In ODC V4.2.x, the usage status of an SQL window is saved by default.

## Bug fixes

* Data sources

   * Fixed the issue where a user removed from a project can still create data sources even if the user does not belong to any project and is not granted with any role.

   * Fixed the issue where the value in the **Execution Time** column is `0` for a session in MySQL mode of OceanBase Database or in a native MySQL database.

   * Fixed the issue where the time output format modified by using the session variable management feature does not take effect in the SQL window in Oracle mode of OceanBase Database.

   * Fixed the issue where schemas in lowercase cannot be connected in Oracle mode of OceanBase Database.

   * Fixed the issue where a MySQL data source built by using the Percona branch cannot be connected.

* SQL execution

   * Fixed the issue where errors thrown during SQL execution are not in English.

   * Fixed the issue where an SQL statement with a DBLink cannot be executed in the team workspace.

   * Fixed the issue where a DESC statement that conforms to the security rules cannot be executed in the team workspace.

   * Fixed the issue where the `ORDER BY` clause in a statement similar to `SELECT ... ORDER BY 1` becomes invalid in Oracle mode of OceanBase Database.

   * Fixed the issue where the **type of sql that allow to execute in SQL console** rule cannot be disabled.

* Database object management

   * Fixed the issue where names of objects such as table partitions displayed in the left-side object tree are enclosed by backticks (`) in MySQL mode of OceanBase Database.

* Result set export

   * Fixed the issue where the result set contains no task logs.

   * Fixed the issue where the result set exported in the Excel format contains no data.

* PL objects

   * Fixed the issue where the `sys_refcursor` option is unavailable in the **Return Type** drop-down list.

   * Fixed the issue where single quotation marks in PL parameter values are not escaped in MySQL mode of OceanBase Database.

* DLM

   * Fixed the issue where task execution fails due to an excessively small size of the database connection pool.

* Partitioning plans

   * Fixed the issue where task creation fails in MySQL mode of OceanBase Database V1.4.79.

   * Fixed the issue where a partitioning plan is still executed for a table for which no partitioning strategy is configured.

* SQL development specifications

   * Fixed the issue where the `alter table xxx drop index` statement cannot be identified as a `DROP INDEX` statement.

* Integration with external approval systems

   * Fixed the issue where data expressions in index collections cannot be identified.

   * Fixed the issue where root tags of the original XML file are lost during deserialization of XML data returned by an external system.

* Data desensitization

   * Fixed the issue where the operation to add sensitive columns fails when duplicate columns are detected.

* Projects

   * Fixed the issue where a user granted the personal workspace permission must log on again to use the personal workspace.

   * Fixed the issue where a transaction timeout occurs during the synchronization of a large amount of data or schemas to a project.

   * Fixed the issue where tickets cannot be filtered by project.

   * Fixed the issue where the project owner can remove all users that are granted the DBA role from the project.

* Bastion host integration

   * Fixed the issue where inactive connections are not cleared.

* Recycle bin

   * Fixed the issue where specific objects in the recycle bin cannot be purged.

* Data mocking

   * Fixed the issue where tasks occupy excessive memory resources.

   * Fixed the issue where the ZHSGB232 encoding standard is not supported.

   * Fixed the issue where a task cannot be generated for a bit type whose width is less than 8 in MySQL mode of OceanBase Database and in MySQL Database.

   * Fixed the issue where an auto-increment primary key column cannot be skipped.

   * Fixed the issue where the width of the bit type is incorrectly displayed in MySQL mode of OceanBase Database and in MySQL Database.

* Database change tasks

   * Fixed the issue where an out of memory (OOM) exception occurs during the upload of large files.

* End-to-end diagnostics

   * Fixed the issue where an OOM exception occurs after ODC performs end-to-end diagnostics.

* Synchronization of shadow tables

   * Fixed the issue where an approver cannot view the task details after a ticket is approved or rejected.

* OBClient integration

   * Fixed the issue where no error is reported when an operating system user is repeatedly created. In this version, before creating an operating system user, ODC checks whether the user exists, and will not create the user if it already exists.

* Tickets

   * Fixed the issue where it takes an excessively long time to create a ticket.

   * Fixed the issue where pending approval tickets of one project exist in the list of pending approval tickets of another project.

* Operation records

   * Fixed the issue where the value of the **Data Source** column in the operation records is empty.

   * Fixed the issue where SQL execution events are not recorded.

   * Fixed the issue where SQL window opening events are not recorded.

## Known issues

* Client ODC cannot be installed in a directory whose name contains Chinese characters.

* The exported data file and content are incorrectly displayed when the table contains virtual columns.

* In Web ODC, the maximum size of schemas or data imported in a batch cannot exceed 2 GB. Otherwise, the upload cannot be performed.

* In Web ODC, the maximum size of schemas or data exported in a batch cannot exceed 2 GB. The excess part will be lost after the export.

* In the details of an export task, the total number of records of the exported objects is not accurate but depends on the views of OceanBase Database.

* If you do not set the `ob_enable_trace_log` parameter to `on`, only the execution plans of the SQL statements executed for the first time are displayed.

## References

- [ODC Community Edition](https://github.com/oceanbase/odc)

- [ODC Enterprise Edition](https://www.oceanbase.com/product/odc)