# ODC V4.2.2

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
  <h4>Notice</h4>
  <ul>
  <li>Before you upgrade OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) from an earlier version to V4.2.0 or later, read through the descriptions in the <strong>Considerations</strong> section of this topic. </li>
  <li>Before you use ODC V4.2.2 and later, pay attention to the limitations on the capabilities of ODC V4.2.2. For more information, see <a href="../../200.odc-overview/500.product-limits.md">Limitations</a>. </li>
  </ul>
</main>

## Considerations

- Data sources

   - In ODC V4.2.0 and later, the concept of connection configuration is replaced with data source.

   - The creation of an OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP) data source is not supported in ODC V4.2.2, and will be supported in later versions.

   - In ODC V4.2.0 and later, private connections are migrated to the individual workspace and exist as data sources.

   - In ODC V4.2.0 and later, public connections are migrated to the team workspace and exist as data sources.

   - In ODC V4.2.0 and later, for the read-only and read/write accounts in original public connections, only the read/write accounts are retained after the upgrade.

- User permissions

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, the private_connection and apply_connection roles are unavailable. In other words, the permissions of the two roles referenced by users no longer take effect after the upgrade to ODC V4.2.x.

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, the resource group feature is obsolete.

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, connection access permissions are obsolete. In ODC V4.2.x, database access control is implemented through project management.

- System settings

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, this feature is obsolete.

- Ticket module

   - Tickets initiated in versions earlier than ODC V4.2.0 can be viewed only on the **Initiated by Me** tab.

- Partitioning plans

   - This feature is upgraded in ODC V4.2.0. After the upgrade to ODC V4.2.x, the historical partitioning plans created in versions earlier than V4.2.0 will stop running.

- SQL plans

   - This feature is upgraded in ODC V4.2.0. After the upgrade to ODC V4.2.x, the historical SQL plans created in versions earlier than V4.2.0 will stop running.

- Task process

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, this feature is obsolete. ODC V4.2.x provides the risk level module for equivalent effects.

- Data desensitization

   - This feature is upgraded in ODC V4.2.0. After the upgrade to ODC V4.2.x, the data desensitization configurations created in versions earlier than V4.2.0 no longer take effect.

- Bastion host integration

   - In ODC V4.2.2, account integration and automatic data source configuration are supported. At present, SQL approval integration is not supported and will be supported in later versions.

- Session history

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, this feature is obsolete. In ODC V4.2.x, the usage status of an SQL window is saved by default.

## ODC V4.2.2-BP

ODC V4.2.2-BP released in November 2023 upgrades the JDBC component to version 2.4.7.1, improves the data archiving performance, and fixes some bugs.

### Version information

* **Current version:**: V4.2.2-BP

* **Previous version**: V4.2.2

* **Release date**: November 24, 2023

* **Supported upgrade path:** You can directly upgrade ODC V2.0.0 and later to this version.

### Feature updates

- The JDBC component is upgraded to version 2.4.7.1.

- The data archiving performance is improved.

### Bug fixes

- Fixed the issue where updating the throttler configuration fails during the execution of a data archiving subtask.

- Fixed the issue where the task to clean up archived data at the source is not executed during the execution of a data archiving task.

- Fixed the issue where regular expression denial of service (ReDoS) attacks are caused if malicious identification rules are entered in automatic sensitive column scanning scenarios.

- Fixed the issue where the scientific notation is used for data of the NUMBER type in MySQL mode.

- Fixed the issue where the content of a cursor cannot be viewed during the execution of a PL statement.

- Fixed the issue where syntax errors are reported in SQL check when the syntax is correct.

- Fixed the issue where after data of the Character Large Object (CLOB) or Binary Large Object (BLOB) type in a table is exported, the exported data is empty.

- Fixed the issue where after a large attachment of the CLOB data type is uploaded, an error occurs while viewing the text.

- Fixed the issue where a PL statement that contains `DEFINER=root@%` cannot be parsed in OceanBase Database in MySQL mode.

## ODC V4.2.2

ODC V4.2.2 released in November 2023 provides comprehensive support for MySQL data sources. You can import MySQL data sources with ease and use the SQL development features for efficient database development. For MySQL data sources, a series of practical features, such as change risk management, data lifecycle management, and security compliance, are provided to facilitate data management and protection.

This version upgrades the ease-of-use of SQL development and interactions in an all-round manner in the following aspects: layout of the resource tree, display of data sources and key database information, enhancement of search capabilities, and improved efficiency in opening and switching SQL windows. This version also implements optimization in terms of data desensitization, data source management, and table object management. For more information, see the change description in the following sections.

Moreover, this ODC version is comprehensively adapted to OceanBase Database V4.2.0 and V4.2.1, enabling you to manage data sources of OceanBase Database V4.2.0 and V4.2.1 with ease.

### Version information

* **Current version:** V4.2.2

* **Previous version:** V4.2.1

* **Release date:** November 8, 2023

* **Supported upgrade path:** You can directly upgrade ODC V2.0.0 and later to this version.

### Feature updates

* The following table lists the features supported for MySQL data sources.

   | Category | Feature | Supported? |
   | ------ | ------ | ------ |
   | Data lifecycle management | Data cleanup | &#10004; |
   |  | Data archiving (from a MySQL data source to an OceanBase MySQL data source, between MySQL data sources, and from an OceanBase MySQL data source to a MySQL data source) | &#10004; |
   | Change risk management | SQL development specifications | &#10004; |
   |  | Approval process configuration | &#10004; |
   | Security compliance | Operation records | &#10004; |
   |  | Data desensitization | &#10004; |
   | SQL window | SQL execution | &#10004; |
   |  | SQL check | &#10004; |
   |  | Auto-completion | &#10004; |
   |  | Execution plans | &#10004; |
   |  | Formatting | &#10004; |
   |  | Result set viewing | &#10004; |
   |  | Result set search | &#10004; |
   |  | Result set editing | &#10004; |
   |  | Result set export | &#10006; |
   |  | Script management | &#10004; |
   |  | Snippets | &#10004; |
   |  | Settings | &#10004; |
   | GUI-based object management | Tables | &#10004; |
   |  | Views | &#10004; |
   |  | Functions | &#10004; |
   |  | Stored procedures | &#10004; |
   | PL capabilities | Compilation | &#10006; |
   |  | Running | &#10004; |
   |  | Debugging | &#10006; |
   | Tickets | Import | &#10006; |
   |  | Export | &#10006; |
   |  | Data mocking | &#10004; |
   |  | Database changes | &#10004; |
   |  | Synchronization of shadow tables | &#10006; |
   |  | SQL plans | &#10004; |
   |  | Partitioning plans | &#10006; |
   | Database O&M | Session management | &#10004; |
   |  | Session variable management | &#10004; |
   |  | Recycle bin management | &#10006; |
   |  | Command-line window | &#10004; |

* Updates of other modules

   | **Module** | **Change description** |
   | ------ | ------ |
   | SQL development | <ul><li> The layout of the resource tree is upgraded from a top-down structure to a switching structure at the top of the page, leaving more operation space for database objects. </li><li> The filtering capabilities of the resource tree are upgraded. You can filter resources by dimensions such as data source type or environment identifier, improving the search efficiency. </li><li> The search capabilities of the resource tree are upgraded. You can search for resources by dimensions such as data source database or table, improving the search flexibility. </li><li> In the resource tree, the types, status, and environment identifiers of data sources and database are displayed, allowing you to directly obtain information. </li><li> Database switching in the SQL window is upgraded. You can search for a database, reducing the time required for database switching. </li><li> You can right-click a table object to open and copy the SQL window, improving the efficiency in opening the SQL window. </li><li> The SQL window provides quick access to the anonymous block window, allowing you to quickly open the anonymous block window. </li></ul> |
   | Data source management | You can configure a startup script for a data source. This way, the date format and weak-consistency read settings can be initialized upon connection establishment.  |
   | Table object management | <ul><li> Availability status identifiers are added for indexes on tables, enabling you to directly view the validity of indexes. </li><li> The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) data type is supported for OceanBase Database in MySQL mode. </li></ul> |
   | Data desensitization. | Data desensitization is supported for view columns. In other words, data in views can be desensitized. The interactions in data desensitization configuration are comprehensively upgraded to improve the ease-of-use of the configuration process.  |
   | Data export | The data export capabilities are strengthened. Types can be exported and database objects to be exported can be displayed during the export.  |
   | Bastion host integration | Account integration and automatic data source configuration are supported. SQL review integration is not supported in this version, and will be supported in later versions.  |
   | Adaptation to OceanBase Database | This ODC version is comprehensively adapted to OceanBase Database V4.2.0 and V4.2.1, enabling you to manage data sources of OceanBase Database V4.2.0 and V4.2.1 with ease.  |
   | Others | <ul><li> Asymmetric encryption is supported to reduce security threats and improve security. </li><li> You can filter sessions by session status to quickly locate required sessions on the session management page. </li></ul> |

### Bug fixes


* Import and export

   * Fixed the issue where the import fails if the name of the CSV file to be exported contains a hyphen (`-`).

   * Fixed the issue where an exported package does not contain the package body.

* Tables

   * Fixed the issue where the length of a string is not displayed when you view the column information.

* Data archiving

   * Fixed the issue where the **Approve** button is absent on the approval page when you request to abort a task.

   * Fixed the issue where the **Cancel** button is absent on the page of a scheduled data archiving task.

   * Fixed the issue where the execution of a task whose filter contains a subquery fails.

* SQL execution

   * Fixed the issue where the VARCHAR data type is not highlighted in the SQL window in OceanBase Database in Oracle mode.

   * Fixed the issue of inaccurate SQL execution time statistics.

   * Fixed the issue where the GET DIAGNOSTICS statement is not supported in OceanBase Database in MySQL mode.

* Result set

   * Fixed the issue where data is empty in column mode.

   * Fixed the issue where exporting a result set as an Excel file fails.

* PL debugging

   * Fixed the issue where breakpoints cannot be set during debugging of anonymous blocks in OceanBase Database V4.2.x.

   * Fixed the issue where subprograms of a package cannot be debugged.

* Database changes

   * Fixed the issue where the time required for starting a database change task is excessively long.

* Session management

   * Fixed the issue where an error is returned during database switching on the session management page.

* Projects

   * Fixed the issue where a deleted database is still displayed when a database is added to a project.

### Known issues

* Client ODC cannot be installed in a directory whose name contains Chinese characters.

* The exported data file and content are incorrectly displayed when the table contains virtual columns.

* In Web ODC, the maximum size of schemas or data imported in a batch cannot exceed 2 GB. Otherwise, the upload cannot be performed.

* In Web ODC, the maximum size of schemas or data exported in a batch cannot exceed 2 GB. The excess part will be lost after the export.

* In the details of an export task, the total number of records of the exported objects is not accurate but depends on the views of OceanBase Database.

* If you do not set the `ob_enable_trace_log` parameter to `on`, only the execution plans of the SQL statements executed for the first time are displayed.

## References

- [ODC Community Edition](https://github.com/oceanbase/odc)

- [ODC Enterprise Edition](https://www.oceanbase.com/product/odc)