ODC V3.3.1 
===============================

OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) V3.3.1 released in May 2022 adds the features that allow you to configure whitelists and session expiration periods, and updates a series of features such as password verification, query result restriction, SQL execution time, PL compilation error information, CLOB content edit, MetaDB version restriction, and help center. The following table describes the updates of modules and features in this release. 

Version information 
----------------------------------------

* **Current version:** V3.3.1

  

* **Previous version:** V3.3.0

  

* **Version release date:** May 23, 2022

  

* **Supported upgrade path:** You can directly upgrade ODC V2.0.0 and later to this version.

  




Supported OceanBase Database versions 
----------------------------------------------------------

ODC V3.3.1 is applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions: 

* General ODC features are applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions:

  * OceanBase Database V1.4.x (mainly V1.4.79)

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V2.0.x

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V2.1.x

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V2.2.x (mainly V2.2.77)

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V3.1.x (mainly V3.1.2)

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V3.2.x (mainly V3.2.4)

    
  
  * OceanBase Database Community Edition, which does not support the PL capabilities of ODC

    
  

  

* The PL capabilities of ODC are applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions:

  * OceanBase Database V2.2.7x, V3.0, and later support the compilation of PL functions, stored procedures, and packages, the debugging of PL functions and stored procedures, and the debugging of anonymous blocks.

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V2.0.x and later support the running of anonymous blocks and PL functions, stored procedures, and packages.

    
  

  




Deployment Requirements Changes 
----------------------------------------------------

Web ODC supports all MetaDB versions.

Feature updates 
------------------------------------

* SQL window

  * The command line window supports ARM, and the built-in OBClient has been upgraded to the stable version V1.2.8.

    
  
  * Supports executing PL statements and code blocks with `/` in their content.

    
  
  * The compilation error information displayed includes the PL row number and the position at which the error occurred.

    
  
  * On the **DB** tab of the **Execution Records** page, you can view the full-link time consumption information about SQL statement execution.

    
  
  * On the Results tab, in Oracle mode, you can directly edit text data of the CLOB, BLOB, or RAW type, edit hexadecimal data, and upload files that are not greater than 200 KB in size; in MySQL mode, you can directly edit text data of the XLOB type such as BLOB, MEDIUMBLOB, or TINYBLOB, edit hexadecimal data, and upload files.

    
  
  * RAW types are displayed in string format, and the `sys_guid` value no longer needs to be viewed in hex mode.

    
  

  

* PL object

  * Optimize package list refresh performance.

    
  
  * Type object supports compile exception flags.

    
  

  

* Security fixes

  * The base image is hardened by replacing CentOS 7 with Anolis OS 8.

    
  
  * Security vulnerabilities in images and JAR packages are fixed.

    
  
  * The whitelist configuration feature is added for defense against server-side request forgery (SSRF) attacks.

    
  

  




Fixed issues 
---------------------------------

* The function creation fails in some cases.

  

* OOM when the SQL window query row limit setting is too large.

  

* In Oracle mode, an exception occurs when an SQL statement is executed after the delimiter is changed to the dollar sign `$`.

  

* The default values of procedure parameters are missing.

  

* X86 OBServers do not support the debugging of functions with output parameters.

  

* Modifications on the alias columns in a result set do not take effect.

  




Known issues 
---------------------------------

* OBServers of the ARM architecture do not support the debugging of PL objects.

  

* Debugging of PL objects that contain composite data types such as cursors, records, and collections and user-defined data types is not supported.

  

* Debugging of PL objects that contain the CLOB data type causes the OBServer to generate a core dump.

  

* The size of a schema or data to be exported cannot exceed 2 GB. Otherwise, the exported data will be incomplete.

  

* In the details of export tasks, the total number of records of the exported objects is not accurate but depends on the views of OceanBase Database.

  

* The size of a schema or data to be imported cannot exceed 2 GB. Otherwise, the file cannot be uploaded.

  

* Unless you set the `ob_enable_trace_log` parameter to `on`, only the execution plans of the SQL statements executed for the first time are displayed.

  



