ODC V3.2.2 
===============================

OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) V3.2.2 released in December 2021 updated the management of homepage and public resources, SQL window, database object, and other features.

Version information 
----------------------------------------

* **Current version:** V3.2.2

  

* **Previous version:** V3.2.1

  

* **Version release date:** December 8, 2021

  

* **Supported upgrade path:** You can directly upgrade ODC V2.0.0 and later to this version.

  




Supported OceanBase Database versions 
----------------------------------------------------------

ODC V3.2.2 is applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions: 

* OceanBase Database V1.4.x

  

* OceanBase Database V2.0.x

  

* OceanBase Database V2.1.x

  

* OceanBase Database V2.2.x

  

* OceanBase Database V3.1.x

  

* OceanBase Database V3.2.x

  




Feature updates 
------------------------------------

* SQL window

  * SQL execution is reimplemented, API is asynchronous, connection is more stable, automatic reconnection is supported when the connection is disconnected, and the execution of long time-consuming statements is more friendly to the network.
    
  
  * SQL window supports intelligent identification of PL code blocks.

    
  
  * Execute record support cleanup.

    
  
  * Support to complete the table name when querying accounts across databases.

    
  
  * Optimize the formatting ability, and the longest formatting time is controlled within 2s.

    
  

  

* Result set

  * Only when the executed SQL is a query, the result set TAB is displayed, and the execution results of other SQL types are displayed in the log TAB.

  * The result set supports multi-row and multi-column selection.

  * The result set supports freezing rows.

  * The result set column mode supports viewing column comments.

  * Support direct export to EXCEL format.

  * Support custom text separation options when exporting to CSV format.
  
  * Support large field viewer.

* Homepage management

  * The connection list supports filtering by clusters and tenants.

    
  
  * The filter component supports filtering by empty conditions.

    
  
  * For the personal information details of the WEB version, the original name is adjusted to the account display.

    
  

  

* Public Resource Console

  * The public connection list supports filtering by clusters and tenants, and supports "null" filtering.

    
  
  * The public connection list supports copying new connections.

    
  

  

* Connection management

  * In MySQL mode, if the default database is not filled in when creating a new connection, the default database is adjusted from MySQL to information_schema.

    
  
  * The connection list is filtered by clusters and tenants, and "null" filtering is supported.

    
  

  

* Table objects

  * Table structure supports foreign key management.

    
  
  * Field names support searching.

    
  

  

* PL objects

  * During compilation, if there is any alarm information, the specific alarm information will be displayed in the compilation result.

    
  
  * The PL object is invalid, and the hover object name can show the specific reason that the object is invalid.

    
  

  

* PL debugging

  * PL debugging is reimplemented, debugging is smoother, and clear error messages can be viewed when problems occur.

    
  
  * The program package supports parallel debugging of subprograms.

    
  
  * Support debugging through OBProxy.

    
  

  

* Asynchronous execution

  * In asynchronous execution, the change content input by the user is allowed to be adjusted up to 50w characters.

    
  

  

* Safety

  * After the administrator resets the user password, the user needs to modify the password before it can be activated.

    
  
  * When users activate the account, they need to set a different password from the original password.

    
  

  

* Other modules

  * Adapt to the OceanBase-CE version.

    
  

  




Fixed issues 
---------------------------------

* Connection management

  * When the connection management page is switched from minimum to maximum, the paging display is abnormal.

    
  
  * The connection cannot be exited due to the blocking of the server end, resulting in the invalidation of the timeout setting.

    
  
  * SQL execution termination fails occasionally.

    
  
  * Public access, read-only operation.

    
  

  

* Database object management

  * The created partition cannot be echoed immediately.

    
  
  * Foreign key constraint columns cannot be displayed in cross schema scenarios.

    
  
  * In Oracle mode, the creation of an existing table fails, and the table with the same name may be deleted.

    
  
  * In Oracle mode, WITH TIME ZONE data type view error.

    
  
  * In MySQL mode, the value of bit type field is displayed incorrectly.

    
  
  * In MySQL mode, the default value of the column does not recognize time functions such as NOW()/UTC_TIMESTAMP/LOCALTIME.

    
  
  * In MySQL mode, the view DDL under oceanbase/information_schema is not displayed.

    
  
  * In-type member structure containing BODY is not expanded.

    
  
  * Table jitter appears on some pages.

    
  

  

* SQL/PL execution

  * There is no response when executing super-long SQL (more than 30,000 characters).

    
  
  * After switching the schema, an error is reported when running the stored procedure (upgrade driver repair).

    
  

  

* Asynchronous execution

  * Asynchronous execution of uploading a file with a BOM header will report an error.

    
  
  * The probabilistic problem of multi-threaded programming causes the asynchronous execution task log to sometimes not be viewed.

    
  
  * Execute asynchronous tasks after switching schemas, the schema switching does not take effect.

    
  
  * When the service is restarted, the automatic loading of asynchronous execution tasks fails.

    
  

  

* Import and export

  * In MySQL mode, the result set export fails when the query contains column aliases.

    
  
  * When exporting tasks, the option "Empty String to Empty Value" does not take effect.

    
  

  

* Command Window

  * When the pasted content in the command line window exceeds 8k, the connection is disconnected.

    
  
  * The Windows desktop version of the command line window cannot be opened.

    
  

  

* Simulation data

  * Simulation data cannot be activated when the connection password is empty.

    
  

  

* High availability deployment

  * In a high-availability deployment, if SQL is executed for more than 1 minute, the connection is disconnected.

    
  

  

* Other modules

  * Inactive users will also enter the activation page when the user password is incorrectly entered.

    
  
  * Users with console permissions can edit and deactivate their own accounts after entering the console.

    
  
  * After the administrator resets the password, the boot process is activated without changing the password.

    
  
  * odc-server frequently prints the Druid connection pool error log.

    
  

  




Known issues 
---------------------------------

* OBServers of the x86 architecture do not support the debugging of functions with output parameters.

  

* OBServers of the ARM architecture do not support the debugging of PL objects.

  

* Debugging of PL objects that contain composite data types such as cursors, records, and collections and user-defined data types is not supported.

  

* Debugging of PL objects that contain the CLOB data type causes the OBServer to generate a core dump.

  

* The size of a schema or data to be exported cannot exceed 2 GB. Otherwise, the exported data will be incomplete.

  

* In the details of export tasks, the total number of records of the exported objects is not accurate but depends on the views of OceanBase Database.

  

* The size of a schema or data to be imported cannot exceed 2 GB. Otherwise, the file cannot be uploaded.

  

* Unless you set the `ob_enable_trace_log` parameter to `on`, only the execution plans of the SQL statements executed for the first time are displayed.




