ODC V3.2.1 
===============================

OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) V3.2.1 released in October 2021 updated the functions for the management of connections and public resources.

Version information 
----------------------------------------

* **Current version:** V3.2.1

  

* **Previous version:** V3.2.0

  

* **Version release date:** October 26, 2021

  

* **Supported upgrade path:** You can directly upgrade ODC V2.0.0 and later to this version.

  




Supported OceanBase Database versions 
----------------------------------------------------------

ODC V3.2.1 is applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions: 

* OceanBase V1.x

  

* OceanBase V2.0.x

  

* OceanBase V2.1.x

  

* OceanBase V2.2.x

  

* OceanBase V3.1.x

  

* OceanBase V3.2.x

  




Feature updates 
------------------------------------

* Connection management

  * Web ODC home page

    * In the personal connection tab list: add mode filter to filter MySQL or Oracle mode; cancel the status filter; in the list, add cluster and tenant information; under the operation column, click the "..." more button to Open, edit, copy and delete personal connections.

      
    
    * In the list of the public connection tab: add mode filter to filter MySQL or Oracle mode; add permission filter to filter read-only or read-write permissions; cancel status filter; in the list, add cluster and tenant information; operation column , click the "..." More button to open, edit, copy, and delete personal connections.

      
    

    
  

  

* Client ODC home page

  * In the personal connection tab list: add mode filter to filter MySQL or Oracle mode; cancel the status filter; in the list, add cluster and tenant information; under the operation column, click the "..." more button to Open, edit, copy and delete personal connections.

    
  

  

* Public Resource Management

  * Added a manual refresh button to the User Management, Role Management, Public Connection Management, and Resource Group Management lists; added Cluster and Tenant information to the Public Connection Management list.

    
  

  




Fixed issues 
---------------------------------

* Fixed the problem that when creating synonyms of view objects, the list of views in other schemas cannot be obtained.

  

* In Oracle mode, in the automatically generated SQL statement of the function in the in_out mode, the creation fails because the parameter type lacks a space (the space between IN and OUT of the INOUT type is missing).

  

* Fix the problem that the PACKAGE keyword in the package object is not highlighted.

  

* Fix the problem of creating a synonym with the name "!@#$%\^\&\*(\~", the creation is successful but the list does not refresh, and there is no prompt message.

  




Known issues 
---------------------------------

* PL support: only supports direct connection, does not support debugging PL objects in OBProxy connection mode; PL objects in OBServer of ARM version do not support debugging; OBServer of X86 version does not support function debugging with output parameters.

  

* Export: The upper limit of the export volume of database or table data is 2G. Exceeding the limit will result in incomplete export data. When the foreign key contains multiple columns, the order of columns is not guaranteed during export. For example: FOREIGN KEY(c1,c2) REFERENCE ......; OBMYSQL V1.4.72 does not support the export of unique prefix index definitions; OBMYSQL V1.4.x and earlier versions of OBORACLE V2.2.50 do not support the export of generated column definitions ; Versions before OBORACLE V2.2.50 do not support the export of function index definitions; versions before OBORACLE V2.2.50 do not support virtual column data export; In the export task details, the total number of data records of the exported object depends on the OceanBase database view and is not an accurate value.

  

* Import: The upper limit of the import volume of database or table data is 2G. If the limit is exceeded, the attachment cannot be uploaded. When importing a table containing foreign keys, the import order of the associated tables cannot be guaranteed, which may cause the import to fail; the file name of the imported data It needs to be consistent with the case of the imported target table name; it is not supported to import the value of the VALUE containing function in the SQL text, for example: INSERT INTO ... VALUES(TO_CHAR('2029-05-21','yyyy- .... ..; When importing a single table, if the selected data file contains data from other tables, other tables will also be imported; when importing using an SQL file, if the SQL file contains a CREATE TABLE statement and the created table already exists in the database, The import task will not be terminated, only an error will be reported in the log.

  

* Execution plan: You need to set the ob_enable_trace_log parameter to on, otherwise only the execution plan of the first executed SQL will be displayed.

  



