ODC V3.2.0 
===============================

The core goal of OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) is to establish a permission model and take the first step towards security control. Since this version, ODC supports permission management, and administrators can configure the permissions of ordinary users. Specific functions include user management, role management, resource group management, and public connection management. At the same time, this version has made a lot of optimizations for stability and ease of use, including result sets, SQL windows, asynchronous execution, database objects and historical bug fixes, aiming to provide users with a better experience.

Version information 
----------------------------------------

* **Current version:** V3.2.0

  

* **Previous version:** V3.1.1

  

* **Version release date:** September 22, 2021

  

* **Supported upgrade path:** You can directly upgrade ODC V2.0.0 and later to this version.

  




Supported OceanBase Database versions 
----------------------------------------------------------

ODC V3.2.0 is applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions: 

* OceanBase V1.x

  

* OceanBase V2.0.x

  

* OceanBase V2.1.x

  

* OceanBase V2.2.x

  

* OceanBase V3.1.x

  

* OceanBase V3.2.x

  




Feature updates 
------------------------------------

* Public resource management: As an enterprise database development platform, ODC provides the services of a public resource management console, which is convenient for ODC administrators to manage users and allocate rights and resources. ODC users who are granted the administrator role can view the Public Resource Management Console tab on the ODC home page, but this tab will not be displayed on the home page of non-administrator users. The console provides services such as user management, role management, public connection management, resource group management, and system settings. Among them, users need to grant permissions to public resources and personal resources through roles. At the same time, using resource groups can grant or reclaim permissions for public connections in batches.

  

* New function introduction: A new function prompt module is added to help users quickly understand the features and capabilities of the new version of ODC. When you access ODC for the first time, the New Features Introduction pop-up window will pop up automatically. The content of the pop-up window includes the new features and functions of the current version to help you quickly understand ODC. After closing the popup, you can click the New Features tab in the drop-down list in the Help Center to open the popup again.

  

* User experience upgrade: Optimized the interaction of the result set, and the specific adjustment involves supporting the mutual copying and pasting of the row and column data within the result set and between EXCEL. Supports the same row and column selection interaction as table data when viewing in column mode. Supports copying part of the result set into CSV/SQL and outputting it to the clipboard. When the content of the queried result set exceeds the screen display, Ctrl+mouse scrolling is supported to view the content beyond the screen. At the same time, when the result set is edited, the text field supports Shift+Enter for line wrapping in the cell and supports setting the default value for the field cell. In addition to the result set, this iteration also optimized the creation and management interaction of functions, stored procedures, sequences, and package objects, and adjusted the editing interaction of session properties. Adjusted the prompt style when the connection is disconnected, and no longer affects the viewing of existing window content.

  

* Enhancement of existing functions: This iteration has raised the upper limit of the import and export data size from the original 250M to 2G. The content limit of code snippets has been increased from 200 characters to 2000 characters, and the description requirement has been removed. The upper limit of analog data has also been raised, and the upper limit of single analog quantity has been adjusted from 10w to 100w. In the SQL window, the highlighting of more keywords, built-in functions, and built-in packages has been enriched. At the same time, when a statement affecting the structure tree list is executed in the SQL window, the structure tree list will be automatically refreshed according to the execution result. In terms of asynchronous execution, it supports retaining the query result set and provides an entry for viewing and downloading the result set. In terms of table structure viewing, it is supported to view the index and remark information of the table on the table details DDL TAB page.

  

* New widget: A new IN value conversion widget is added. With this tool, a row of data (separated by spaces) or a column of data (separated by newline characters) can be directly converted into IN values, which is convenient for users to quickly generate conditional query statements.

  

* Installation optimization: In this iteration, during client installation or Docker deployment, custom ODCs are supported to occupy ports. At the same time, the JRE environment is integrated in the client version, and users are no longer required to install JDK.

  




Fixed issues 
---------------------------------

* Fixed the failure to modify the table remarks on the table details page through a white screen in ODC in Oracle mode.

  

* Fixed the failure to add a unique index on the table details page through a white screen in ODC in Oracle mode.

  

* Fixed the problem of duplicate table names in the table list in the structure tree on the left side of the ODC when frequently deleted and created tables with the same name.

  

* Fixed the problem that the row and column content beyond the screen cannot be selected in the result set.

  

* Fixed the problem that the task log search and filtering were insensitive and the log information was inaccurate.

  

* Fix the problem that there is no password in the connection information of the command line window, and the connection needs to be manually determined.

  

* Fixed the problem that the RAW type uploads an empty file again for a column with existing values, resulting in the value being displayed as NULL.

  

* Fixed the problem that the function of selecting all exported objects and filtering by object type fails when exporting data.

  




Known issues 
---------------------------------

* PL support: only supports direct connection, and does not support debugging of PL objects in OBProxy connection mode; PL objects in OBServer of ARM version do not support debugging; OBServer of X86 version does not support function debugging with output parameters.

  

* Export: The upper limit of the export volume of database or table data is 2G. Exceeding the limit will result in incomplete export data. When the foreign key contains multiple columns, the order of columns is not guaranteed during export. For example: FOREIGN KEY(c1,c2) REFERENCE ......; OBMYSQL V1.4.72 does not support the export of unique prefix index definitions; OBMYSQL V1.4.x and earlier versions of OBORACLE V2.2.50 do not support the export of generated column definitions ; Versions before OBORACLE V2.2.50 do not support the export of function index definitions; versions before OBORACLE V2.2.50 do not support virtual column data export; The total number of data records of the exported object in the export task details depends on the OceanBase database view and is not an accurate value.

  

* Import: The upper limit of the import volume of database or table data is 2G. If the limit is exceeded, the attachment cannot be uploaded. When importing a table containing foreign keys, the import order of the associated tables cannot be guaranteed, which may cause the import to fail; the file name of the imported data It needs to be consistent with the case of the imported target table name; it is not supported to import the value of the VALUE containing function in the SQL text, for example: INSERT INTO ... VALUES(TO_CHAR('2029-05-21','yyyy- .... ..; When importing a single table, if the selected data file contains data from other tables, other tables will also be imported; when importing using an SQL file, if the SQL file contains a CREATE TABLE statement and the created table already exists in the database, The import task will not be terminated, only an error will be reported in the log.

  

* Execution plan: You need to set the ob_enable_trace_log parameter to on, otherwise only the execution plan of the first executed SQL will be displayed.

  



