# ODC V4.1.2

OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) V4.1.2 released in March 2023 allows you to create multiple private connections, public connections, and users at a time, shows an information collection list on ODC client, and optimizes features such as interactive operations in an SQL window, SQL execution, PL objects, result set editing, display of table data and view data, and shadow tables.

## Version information

* **Current version**: V4.1.2

* **Previous version**: V4.1.1

* **Version release date**: March 17, 2023

* **Supported upgrade path**: You can directly upgrade ODC V2.0.0 and later to this version.

## Supported OceanBase Database versions

ODC V4.1.2 is applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions:

* General ODC features are applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions:

   * OceanBase Database V1.4.x (mainly V1.4.7)

   * OceanBase Database V2.0.x

   * OceanBase Database V2.1.x

   * OceanBase Database V2.2.x (mainly V2.2.7)

   * OceanBase Database V3.1.x (mainly V3.1.2)

   * OceanBase Database V3.2.x (mainly V3.2.4)

   * OceanBase Database V4.0.0

   * OceanBase Database V4.1.0

   * OceanBase Database Community Edition




* The PL capabilities of ODC are applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions:

   * OceanBase Database V2.2.7, V3.0.x, and later support the compilation of PL functions, stored procedures, and packages, the debugging of PL functions and stored procedures, and the debugging of anonymous blocks. We recommend that you use OceanBase Database V3.2.3 BP4 or later for better debugging performance.

   * OceanBase Database V2.0.x and later support the running of anonymous blocks and PL functions, stored procedures, and packages.


## Feature updates

* Connection management

   * You can create multiple private or public connections at a time by uploading a template file.

* Collaborative control

   * You can create multiple users at a time by uploading a template file.

* SQL window

   * The horizontal and vertical scroll bars of the editing area in the SQL window are widened.

   * The default mode of sessions in the SQL window is changed from Shared Session to Independent Session.

   * Before you execute an SQL statement, you can specify whether to enable **Obtain Column Information of Result Set**. If the table contains a large number of columns, we recommend that you do not enable this option. This way, column comments and editable columns are not obtained to reduce the SQL execution time.

   * The maximum size of a CLOB field in the result set is changed to 2 MB for texts, 200 KB for hexadecimals, and 20 MB for images.

   * When you edit a result set, you can export specified rows to the clipboard.

   * You can view the information of a field, such as its type and remarks, in the status bar of the result set.

* Database objects

   * If the version of OceanBase Database is earlier than V3.2.4, the PL debugging page displays an upgrade prompt.

   * When you debug a PL object, if the parameters contain complex data types such as RECORD and COLLECTION, you can declare the parameters in the debugging window.

   * The user interface for PL object creation is optimized.

   * When you view table data, if you move the pointer to a value or the header of a column, you can view the information of the column, such as its type and remarks, in the status bar.

   * You can set the maximum number of rows to be displayed on the Data tab of Check View Data.

* Import and export

   * When you import a single CSV table, you can skip the first row.

   * You can merge DDL statements into one SQL file and sort them by foreign keys when you export only the schema.

   * When you export data, you can set the maximum size of a single file. The size can be 64 MB, 512 MB, 1,024 MB, 2,048 MB, or not limited.

   * You must call the TO_DATE or TO_TIMESTAMP function to export SQL statements of date and time data types.

* Third-party integration

   * You can use your account and password to log on to web ODC from the logon page of web ODC or a third party.

   * Single sign-on (SSO) supports the OpenID Connect (OIDC) protocol.

* Other features

   * ODC client provides an information collection list to collect the usage frequency of some ODC features.

   * The request ID can be displayed in error messages.

   * When you create a new shadow table synchronization project, you can select the Select All check box to select all source tables.

## Fixed issues

* Database objects

   * The error message that indicates the inexistence of a table object needs to be optimized.

   * In the package list, no response is returned when you right-click a package for compilation.

   * After you create a package, errors occur in the execution of the generated DDL statements in some scenarios.

   * If the name of a table ends with a colon (`:`), an error is reported when you expand the group that contains the table in the left-side navigation pane.

   * An error is reported when you run a PL object that contains an OUT parameter of the VARCHAR2 data type.

   * In an Oracle tenant of OceanBase Database V4.0.0 and later, the NUMBER data type of a table object is displayed in incorrect precision and scale.

* SQL execution

   * An error is reported when you execute an SQL statement that contains `Q` escape characters.

   * The execution of a stored procedure succeeds, but the SQL check of the stored procedure reports a syntax error.

   * When you delete rows in a result set, the SQL check prompts a risk.

   * An error is reported when you view an execution plan in OceanBase Database V4.1.0.

   * If the value of a BLOB or CLOB column is empty, an error is reported when you view data in the row.

   * If a LEFT JOIN is performed and the left-side table contains an empty value, an error is reported when you export the result set.

   * If the `FROM` clause of an SQL statement contains a `PIVOT` or `UNPIVOT` operator, the SQL execution fails.

   * If a PL object contains a `SUM(CASE WHEN ... THEN ... ELSE ... END) AS` statement, the statement is incorrectly separated.

   * If you use forward slashes (`/`) as the delimiter in a PL/SQL statement that contains a division sign (`/`), an error is reported when the statement is separated, and the execution fails.

* Import and export

   * An error is reported when you export too many objects at a time.

   * An empty value is displayed as `\E` in the exported data.

   * When you import data, the specified value of Batch Commit Quantity does not take effect.

   * If you cancel an import or export task, an error is reported when you view the log.

   * Temporary files generated during exports are not deleted and occupy a large amount of disk space.

* Collaborative control

   * The resource name is not validated.

   * Tasks are automatically retried in some scenarios.

   * The loading time of the task list needs to be optimized.

   * You cannot create or edit resources for which you do not have management privileges.

   * You cannot view the information of connections for which you do not have access privileges in the console.

* Data desensitization

   * If you use a character replacement rule, a `null` string is added in the result.

   * When you replace a custom segment with a character, a delimiter is added.

* SQL plans

   * After you delete a connection, the SQL plans associated with the connection cannot be executed.

* Tools

   * In the command line tool of ODC client on Windows, Chinese characters in commands may be garbled.

   * In multi-node deployment mode, files cannot be referenced by running the `SOURCE` command in a command-line window.

* Installation and deployment

   * If you set the memory size to 4 GB when you start Docker, the startup fails.

* Security hardening

   * Hutool needs to be upgraded to V5.8.12.

   * Spring needs to be upgraded to V5.3.24.

   * Spring Security needs to be upgraded to V5.7.5.

   * The risk of horizontal privilege escalation needs to be fixed.

   * The Swagger dependency is required to download any files.

## Known issues

* ODC client cannot be installed in a directory whose name contains Chinese characters.

* The exported data file and content are incorrectly displayed when the table contains virtual columns.

* On web ODC, the maximum size of schemas or data imported in a batch cannot exceed 2 GB. Otherwise, the upload cannot be performed.

* On web ODC, the maximum size of schemas or data exported in a batch cannot exceed 2 GB. The excess part will be lost after the export.

* In the details of an export task, the total number of records of the exported objects is not accurate but depends on the views of OceanBase Database.

* If you do not set the `ob_enable_trace_log` parameter to `on`, only the execution plans of the SQL statements executed for the first time are displayed.