# ODC V4.3.0

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
  <h4>Notice</h4>
  <ul>
  <li>Before you upgrade OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) from a version earlier than V4.2.0 to V4.3.0-BP, you must read through the <strong>Considerations</strong> section in this topic. </li>
  <li>Before you use ODC V4.3.0-BP, familiarize yourself with the descriptions in the <a href="../../200.odc-overview/500.product-limits.md">Limitations</a> topic. </li>
  </ul>
</main>

## Considerations

- Data sources

   - In ODC V4.2.0 and later, the concept of connection configuration is replaced with data source.

   - In ODC V4.2.0 and later, private connections are migrated to the individual workspace and exist as data sources.

   - In ODC V4.2.0 and later, public connections are migrated to the team workspace and exist as data sources.

   - In ODC V4.2.0 and later, for the read-only and read/write accounts in original public connections, only the read/write accounts are retained after the upgrade.

- User permissions

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, the `private_connection` and `apply_connection` roles are unavailable. In other words, the permissions of the two roles referenced by users no longer take effect after the upgrade to ODC V4.2.x.

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, the resource group feature is obsolete.

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, connection access permissions are obsolete. In ODC V4.2.x, database access control is implemented through project management.

- System settings

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, this feature is obsolete.

- Ticket module

   - Tickets initiated in versions earlier than ODC V4.2.0 can be viewed only on the **Initiated by Me** tab.

- Partitioning plans

   - This feature is upgraded in ODC V4.2.0. After the upgrade to ODC V4.2.x, historical partitioning plans created in versions earlier than V4.2.0 will stop running.

- SQL plans

   - This feature is upgraded in ODC V4.2.0. After the upgrade to ODC V4.2.x, historical SQL plans created in versions earlier than V4.2.0 will stop running.

- Task process

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, this feature is obsolete. ODC V4.2.x provides the risk level module for equivalent effects.

- Data desensitization

   - This feature is upgraded in ODC V4.2.0. After the upgrade to ODC V4.2.x, the data desensitization configurations created in versions earlier than V4.2.0 no longer take effect.

- Bastion host integration

   - In ODC V4.2.2, account integration and automatic data source configuration are supported. At present, SQL approval integration is not supported and will be supported in later versions.

- Session history

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, this feature is obsolete. In ODC V4.2.x, the usage status of an SQL window is saved by default.

## ODC V4.3.0-BP

ODC V4.3.0-BP released in June 2024 aims to fix some specific bugs. For more information, see the **Bug fixes** section in this topic.

### Version information

* **Current version:** V4.3.0-BP

* **Previous version:** V4.3.0

* **Release date:** June 21, 2024

* **Supported upgrade path:** You can directly upgrade ODC V2.0.0 and later to this version.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed the issue where an error is returned while formatting a statement with a `LIKE` or `REPLACE` clause that contains two backslashes (`\\`).

* Fixed the issue where starting Client ODC V4.3.0 after reinstallation fails.

* Fixed the issue where importing a ZIP file that contains empty database object data fails.

* Fixed the issue where the user that created a task cannot stop automatic execution of the task.

* Fixed the issue where timeout periods cannot be specified for notifications.

* Fixed the issue where the **Format** button does not take effect on the SQL confirmation page.

* Fixed the issue where not all data sources are displayed in the data source list after batch import.

* Optimized the ticket description of a batch database change task.

## ODC V4.3.0

ODC V4.3.0 released in June 2024 enhances the following features:

- Change risk management:

  - ODC V4.3.0 provides the batch database change feature to ensure data structure consistency across environments, thereby ensuring business continuity.

  - ODC V4.3.0 implements refined database permission management. It introduces and integrates the database owner role into the approval process for security hardening.

  - ODC V4.3.0 enhances the flexibility. You can choose to manually execute a ticket task at the optimal time during off-peak hours to ensure the efficiency.

- Data lifecycle management:

  - ODC V4.3.0 supports refined task configurations. You can customize the data range for processing based on partitioning conditions and specify the execution period of a task to implement personalized data management.

  - ODC V4.3.0 optimizes schema synchronization for archiving tasks to ensure schema consistency between the source and destination, thereby improving the success rate.

  - ODC V4.3.0 integrates data verification into cleanup tasks to enhance the security of delete operations.

  - ODC V4.3.0 displays key metrics in execution record details, improving the transparency.

  - ODC V4.3.0 provides full support for all kinds of fields and application scenarios to meet diversified management requirements.

- Usability improvements: ODC V4.3.0 introduces the global object retrieval feature to simplify the query process and enhance operation convenience.

For more information, see the **Feature updates** and **Bug fixes** sections in this topic.

### Version information

* **Current version:** V4.3.0

* **Previous version:** V4.2.4-BP2

* **Release date:** June 11, 2024

* **Supported upgrade path:** You can directly upgrade ODC V2.0.0 and later to this version.

### Feature updates

* Change risk management

  - ODC V4.3.0 provides the batch database change feature. You can apply the same change to multiple databases. When you initiate a batch database change task, you can configure a flexible change pipeline and customize the batch and parallel execution strategies for the databases involved in the change task. You can also save the change pipeline as a template for future reference.

  - ODC V4.30 provides the database administrator (DBA) role. A project administrator can configure DBAs for databases involved in the project. DBAs can be referenced by ticket approval nodes. Information about DBAs is included in webhook events for integration with external approval systems.

  - When you initiate a batch database change task, you can configure manual execution for the task. After the task is initiated, you can choose to execute the task at an appropriate time based on the business load.

* Data archiving and cleanup

  - When you initiate a data archiving or cleanup task, you can configure partitioning conditions. You can define the data range for processing by partition to avoid unnecessary partition scans, thereby improving the efficiency.

  - When you initiate a data archiving or cleanup task, you can configure a timeout period for the task. If the task is not completed within the specified period, it is stopped and will be scheduled again in the next execution window.

  - When you initiate a data archiving task, you can configure incremental schema synchronization. This can improve the success rate of the archiving task by ensuring schema consistency between the source and the destination. Incremental schema synchronization is not supported when you archive data from a native MySQL database to a MySQL tenant of OceanBase Database.

  - When you initiate a data cleanup task, you can configure data verification. The integrated data verification mechanism can help improve the reliability of data cleanup.

  - General task runtime metrics, such as the number of rows scanned, number of rows processed, and actual conditions, are provided in execution record details.

  - More data types are supported for data archiving and cleanup tasks. Specifically, the BIT, ENUM, SET, XML, and GEOMETRY data types are supported for OceanBase Database in MySQL mode. Data types such as RAW, BLOB, CLOB, BFILE, ROWID, UROWID, TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE, TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE, INTERVAL YEAR TO MONTH, AND INTERVAL DAY TO SECOND are supported for OceanBase Database in Oracle mode.

- Global object retrieval

  - The global object retrieval feature is provided. You can search for objects such as databases, tables, columns, views, functions, stored procedures, packages, and triggers in a project.

  - You can use the keyboard shortcut `Ctrl+J` in Windows or `Command+J` in macOS to quickly enable global object retrieval.

- Compatibility with OceanBase Database

  - ODC V4.3.0 supports columnar storage of tables and indexes in OceanBase Database.

  - ODC V4.3.0 supports geographic information system (GIS) data types of OceanBase Database in Oracle mode.

  - ODC V4.3.0 supports all features of OceanBase Database V4.2.3 and V4.3.0.

- Ease-of-use improvements

  - The Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) parameters and initialization scripts in data source configurations will be applied to import/export tasks for higher flexibility.

  - When you archive a project, ODC V4.3.0 will verify whether all scheduled tasks are stopped. You can continue only if all scheduled tasks are stopped.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed the issue where a schema query fails when you connect to a standby OceanBase cluster.

* Fixed the issue where a parallel execution exception occurs when the connection is reset.

* Fixed the issue where the stored procedures and functions are not sorted in alphabetical order.

* Fixed the issue where batch PL statement compilation fails in Oracle mode of OceanBase Database.

* Fixed the issue where switching between databases fails when more than 2,000 databases exist in the SQL window.

* Fixed the issue where the setting of aborting execution upon an error does not take effect during statement execution in the SQL window.

* Fixed the issue where an error is returned during the execution of a statement in the SQL window after the connection between ODC and the database is closed by using OBClient.

* Fixed the issue where National Language Support (NLS) parameters cannot be set for an Oracle data source in the SQL window.

* Fixed the issue where message notification fails when the data archiving/cleanup task framework is disabled.

* Fixed the issue where an error prompting that the project already exists is returned when a project is edited.

* Fixed the issue where ticket description contains Chinese characters.

* Fixed the issue where the approval fails when the content to be approved is excessively long.

* Fixed the issue where an abnormal result occurs during the execution of a schema comparison task when the destination table does not exist.

* Fixed the issue where the setting of skipping schema import does not take effect during the execution of an import task.

* Fixed the issue where an error prompting that the table objects do not exist is returned when `lower_case_table_names=2` is configured for an OceanBase Database tenant.

* Fixed the issue where the unique index on a partitioned table is invisible when you query the information about a table object.

* Fixed the issue where the access to `swagger-ui.html` fails.

### Known issues

* Client ODC cannot be installed in a directory whose name contains Chinese characters.

* The exported data file and content are incorrectly displayed when the table contains virtual columns.

* In Web ODC, the maximum size of schemas or data imported in a batch cannot exceed 2 GB. Otherwise, the upload cannot be performed.

* In Web ODC, the maximum size of schemas or data exported in a batch cannot exceed 2 GB. The excess part will be lost after the export.

* In the details of an export task, the total number of records of the exported objects is not accurate but depends on the views of OceanBase Database.

* If you do not set the `ob_enable_trace_log` parameter to `on`, only the execution plans of the SQL statements executed for the first time are displayed.

### Acknowledgments

Our acknowledgments go to partners in OceanBase Community for their contributions to this version.

We highly appreciate the Shusheng technical team @isadba for their contribution in introducing the database owner role and integrating the role into the approval process.

## References

- [ODC Community Edition](https://github.com/oceanbase/odc)

- [ODC Enterprise Edition](https://www.oceanbase.com/product/odc)