# ODC V4.3.2

OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) V4.3.2 released in September 2024 enhances the following features:

- Support for logical databases: ODC V4.3.2 introduces new logical database features to provide a quick, reliable, and easy-to-use change basis for database and table sharding. The new features include logical database configuration, access privilege management, logical table obtaining and creation, and execution of data definition language (DDL) changes.

- Archive link extension: ODC V4.3.2 adds two archive links to support archiving data from an Oracle database to an Oracle tenant of OceanBase Database and from a PostgreSQL database to a MySQL tenant of OceanBase Database, on the basis of the archive link supported in ODC V4.3.1 from a MySQL database to a MySQL tenant of OceanBase Database.

- SQL development and data source management optimization: ODC V4.3.2 improves the usability of the SQL development page, data sources, and forms and optimizes more than 10 features such as the location key, resource tree object, and SQL execution result.

For more information, see the “Feature updates” section.

### Feature updates

- SQL check

  - ODC V4.3.2 supports a specification for checking rows affected in MySQL tenants of OceanBase Database and in MySQL data sources, so as to restrict the execution of large SQL-based changes and ensure business stability.

### Bug fixes

- Data objects

  - Fixed the issue where an error is reported when the system executes the formatted SQL statements generated for columns that contain large object (LOB) fields after a file upload.

  - Fixed the issue where the precision of TINYINT data is incorrect in MySQL mode.

  - Fixed the issue where a column of the Character Large Object (CLOB) or Binary Large Object (BLOB) data type whose value is NULL cannot be edited on the GUI.

- Change control

    - Fixed the issue where pages cannot be scrolled when too many risk identification rules are specified.

- Import and export

    - Fixed the issue where native MySOL data fails to be exported by using Client ODC on a Windows system.

    - Fixed the issue where an error is reported when the type of the exported table is BigDecimal.

    - Fixed the issue where the result set export fails when the `*` or `NVL` function is used in SQL statements.

    - Fixed the issue where the result set export fails when the table contains SDO_GEOMETRY data.

- Data archiving

    - Fixed the issue where the number of scan records displayed in the details of executed archiving tasks is not accurate.

    - Fixed the issue where the privileges of a database administrator (DBA) are required for archiving the data of Oracle tenants of OceanBase Database.

- Data sources

    - Fixed the issue where a test can still be successful even though an Oracle tenant is selected as the source `sys` tenant of OceanBase Database to be connected.

- Others

    - Fixed the issue where single sign-on (SSO) may fail in the environment with a load balancing service deployed.

    - Fixed the issue where the startup parameter `ODC_APP_EXTRA_ARGS` is invalid.