# ODC V4.3.1

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
  <h4>Notice</h4>
  <ul>
  <li>Before you upgrade OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) from a version earlier than V4.2.0 to V4.3.1, you must read through the <strong>Considerations</strong> section in this topic. </li>
  <li>Before you use ODC V4.3.1, familiarize yourself with the descriptions in the <a href="../../200.odc-overview/500.product-limits.md">Limitations</a> topic. </li>
  </ul>
</main>

## Considerations

- Data sources

   - In ODC V4.2.0 and later, the concept of connection configuration is replaced with data source.

   - In ODC V4.2.0 and later, private connections are migrated to the individual workspace and exist as data sources.

   - In ODC V4.2.0 and later, public connections are migrated to the team workspace and exist as data sources.

   - In ODC V4.2.0 and later, for the read-only and read/write accounts in original public connections, only the read/write accounts are retained after the upgrade.

- User permissions

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, the `private_connection` and `apply_connection` roles are unavailable. In other words, the permissions of the two roles referenced by users no longer take effect after the upgrade to ODC V4.2.x.

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, the resource group feature is obsolete.

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, connection access permissions are obsolete. In ODC V4.2.x, database access control is implemented through project management.

- System settings

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, this feature is obsolete.

- Ticket module

   - Tickets initiated in versions earlier than ODC V4.2.0 can be viewed only on the **Initiated by Me** tab.

- Partitioning plans

   - This feature is upgraded in ODC V4.2.0. After the upgrade to ODC V4.2.x, historical partitioning plans created in versions earlier than V4.2.0 will stop running.

- SQL plans

   - This feature is upgraded in ODC V4.2.0. After the upgrade to ODC V4.2.x, historical SQL plans created in versions earlier than V4.2.0 will stop running.

- Task process

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, this feature is obsolete. ODC V4.2.x provides the risk level module for equivalent effects.

- Data desensitization

   - This feature is upgraded in ODC V4.2.0. After the upgrade to ODC V4.2.x, the data desensitization configurations created in versions earlier than V4.2.0 no longer take effect.

- Bastion host integration

   - In ODC V4.2.2, account integration and automatic data source configuration are supported. At present, SQL approval integration is not supported and will be supported in later versions.

- Session history

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, this feature is obsolete. In ODC V4.2.x, the usage status of an SQL window is saved by default.

## ODC V4.3.1-BP

ODC V4.3.1-BP released in August 2024 aims to disabled the feature for synchronizing table structures with versions earlier than MySQL 5.7, and fix some specific bugs. For more information, see the Bug fixes section in this topic.

### Version information

* Current version: V4.3.1-BP

* Previous version: V4.3.1

* Release date: August 13, 2024

* Supported upgrade path: You can directly upgrade ODC V2.0.0 and later to this version.

### Feature updates

- Disabled the feature for synchronizing table structures with versions earlier than MySQL 5.7

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue where the desktop version of ODC V4.3.1 could not be installed on Windows Home editions.

* Fixed a problem where alert notifications failed when the content type was set to `text/plain`.

* Fixed an issue where function calls in SQL were incorrectly intercepted by permission checks.

* Fixed a problem where having export permissions for only one table allowed exporting the entire database.

* Corrected the display issue of foreign key constraints' `ON DELETE` rules.

* Fixed an issue where regular users received "no permission" errors when viewing task details after tasks were assigned a risk level.

* Fixed an issue where the "Specify Partition" option was not selected when re-initiating data archiving tasks based on the specified partition.

* Fixed a problem where project owners could not see the "Edit" and "Terminate" buttons when viewing task details.

* Fixed a potential data loss issue with online schema changes.

* Corrected an issue where the status icon for selectable databases remained in a loading state when requesting database permissions.

* Fixed a problem where databases with invalid statuses were not grayed out in the list of selectable databases for table permission application tasks.

* Fixed an issue where the context menu opened via right-click in the structure tree was too narrow, causing some options to be cut off.

## ODC V4.3.1

ODC V4.3.1 released in July 2024 enhances the following features:

- Risk management: ODC V4.3.1 introduces the fine-grained table-level permission control feature to enhance the monitoring of change risks.
- Analytical processing (AP) features: ODC V4.3.1 provides real-time execution analysis of SQL plans to ensure real-time SQL diagnostics in a more direct and interactive manner.
- User experience: ODC V4.3.1 supports data cleanup task editing, improves batch data source import capabilities, and optimizes session management in non-direct-connection scenarios.

For more information, see the “Feature updates” section.

### Version information

* **Current version:** V4.3.1

* **Previous version:** V4.3.0

* **Release date:** July 31, 2024

* **Supported upgrade path:** You can directly upgrade ODC V2.0.0 and later to this version.

### Feature updates

- Change risk management

  - ODC V4.3.1 provides table-level permission control to further enhance management collaboration. A project member can have different operation permissions on different tables, such as the query, change, and export permissions on tables.

- AP development

  ODC V4.3.1 provides real-time execution analysis and displays the `sql_plan_monitor` view in a visual and interactive manner.

  - To use this feature, you must configure a data source of OceanBase V4.2.4 or later and prior to OceanBase V4.3.0, or of OceanBase V4.3.3 or later versions.

  - You can analyze a completed SQL statement, or perform real-time analysis during the execution of an SQL statement.

  - ODC V4.3.1 displays execution plans in the graphic view, table view, and text view to display the connections between operators and the execution sequence of the operators in a more direct manner.

  - The global view displays the top 5 time-consuming operators in order and provides a summary of executions in each phase. You can quickly locate performance bottlenecks based on the global view.

  - An operator node comprises the execution status and details of the operator, including the CPU, memory, disk, number of returned rows, and node attributes.

  - You can sort parallel execution nodes by DB time, I/O memory, and number of returned rows to quickly locate data skew issues. You can analyze both standalone execution plans and distributed execution plans.

  - ODC V4.3.1 provides a new integrated real-time diagnostics page, on which you can perform analysis based on the execution plan and end-to-end diagnostics.

- Session management

  You can end a session or query in non-direct-connection scenarios.

  - When you connect to OceanBase Database V4.2.3 or later through ODP V4.2.5 or later, you can manage sessions based on client session capabilities.

  - In Oracle mode of OceanBase Database V4.2.1, you can manage sessions based on anonymous blocks.

- Ease-of-use improvements

  - You can edit the configurations of a data cleanup task.

  - You can import MySQL, Oracle, and Doris data sources in batches.

- Compatibility with OceanBase Database

  - ODC V4.3.1 supports all features of OceanBase Database V4.2.4, V4.3.1, and V4.3.2.

### Bug fixes

* Data lifecycle management

  - Fixed the issue where table schema comparison is performed even when table schema synchronization is disabled.

* Change risk management

  - Fixed the issue where automatic authorization rules do not take effect for LoginSuccess events.

  - Fixed the issue where a risk level cannot be specified for database permission application operations.

* Import and export

  - Fixed the issue where after Client ODC is reinstalled, the import task may be affected by imported files of historical tasks.

* SQL check

  - Fixed the issue where after the SQL window specifications are enabled, the submit and rollback buttons in the SQL window may become unavailable.

* SQL development

  - Fixed the issue where a NullPointerException (NPE) may be returned during PL debugging.

  - Fixed the issue where an error occurs while executing the SQL statement for modifying session variables in Oracle mode.

  - Fixed the issue where SQL execution fails if you do not have the `SELECT` privilege on `oceanbase.*` views.

  - Fixed the issue where the copied value is empty when you click **Copy** in the right-click context menu to copy data of a time type to an SQL statement in Oracle mode.

  - Fixed the issue where the execution of a package is blocked because the package is mistakenly identified as a schema.

  - Fixed the issue where if the schema in an anonymous block is not identified, you can use the anonymous block to access unauthorized schemas.

* Data mocking

  - Fixed the issue where a data mocking task cannot be terminated.

* Global object retrieval

  - Fixed the issue where object synchronization cannot be stopped.

* Tickets

  - Fixed the issue where the SQL check result cannot be obtained if the check result file does not exist locally.

* Audit

  - Fixed the issue where values in the `content_ip_address` column exceed the length limit of the column.

* Data archiving and cleanup

  - Fixed the issue where the data cleanup task is still in progress when data archiving fails.

* Partitioning plans

  - Fixed the issue where the data type of the partitioning key cannot be identified in MySQL mode.

* Others

  - Fixed the issue where if you schedule tasks in process mode in a multi-node deployment scenario, all tasks will be scheduled to the same node.

### Known issues

* Client ODC cannot be installed in a directory whose name contains Chinese characters.

* The exported data file and content are incorrectly displayed when the table contains virtual columns.

* In Web ODC, the maximum size of schemas or data imported in a batch cannot exceed 2 GB. Otherwise, the upload cannot be performed.

* In Web ODC, the maximum size of schemas or data exported in a batch cannot exceed 2 GB. The excess part will be lost after the export.

* In the details of an export task, the total number of records of the exported objects is not accurate but depends on the views of OceanBase Database.

* If you do not set the `ob_enable_trace_log` parameter to `on`, only the execution plans of the SQL statements executed for the first time are displayed.

### Acknowledgments

Our acknowledgments go to partners in OceanBase Community for their contributions to this version.

We highly appreciate the Shusheng technical team @isadba for their contribution to the table-level permission control capability.

## References

- [ODC Community Edition](https://github.com/oceanbase/odc)

- [ODC Enterprise Edition](https://www.oceanbase.com/product/odc)