# ODC V4.3.1

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
  <h4>Notice</h4>
  <ul>
  <li>Before you upgrade OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) from a version earlier than V4.2.0 to V4.3.1, you must read through the <strong>Considerations</strong> section in this topic. </li>
  <li>Before you use ODC V4.3.1, familiarize yourself with the descriptions in the <a href="../../200.odc-overview/500.product-limits.md">Limitations</a> topic. </li>
  </ul>
</main>

## Considerations

- Data sources

   - In ODC V4.2.0 and later, the concept of connection configuration is replaced with data source.

   - In ODC V4.2.0 and later, private connections are migrated to the individual workspace and exist as data sources.

   - In ODC V4.2.0 and later, public connections are migrated to the team workspace and exist as data sources.

   - In ODC V4.2.0 and later, for the read-only and read/write accounts in original public connections, only the read/write accounts are retained after the upgrade.

- User permissions

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, the `private_connection` and `apply_connection` roles are unavailable. In other words, the permissions of the two roles referenced by users no longer take effect after the upgrade to ODC V4.2.x.

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, the resource group feature is obsolete.

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, connection access permissions are obsolete. In ODC V4.2.x, database access control is implemented through project management.

- System settings

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, this feature is obsolete.

- Ticket module

   - Tickets initiated in versions earlier than ODC V4.2.0 can be viewed only on the **Initiated by Me** tab.

- Partitioning plans

   - This feature is upgraded in ODC V4.2.0. After the upgrade to ODC V4.2.x, historical partitioning plans created in versions earlier than V4.2.0 will stop running.

- SQL plans

   - This feature is upgraded in ODC V4.2.0. After the upgrade to ODC V4.2.x, historical SQL plans created in versions earlier than V4.2.0 will stop running.

- Task process

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, this feature is obsolete. ODC V4.2.x provides the risk level module for equivalent effects.

- Data desensitization

   - This feature is upgraded in ODC V4.2.0. After the upgrade to ODC V4.2.x, the data desensitization configurations created in versions earlier than V4.2.0 no longer take effect.

- Bastion host integration

   - In ODC V4.2.2, account integration and automatic data source configuration are supported. At present, SQL approval integration is not supported and will be supported in later versions.

- Session history

   - Starting from ODC V4.2.0, this feature is obsolete. In ODC V4.2.x, the usage status of an SQL window is saved by default.

## ODC V4.3.1-BP

本次 8 月发版的 OceanBase 开发者中心（OceanBase Developer Center，ODC）V4.3.1-BP 版本旨在限制 MySQL 5.7 之前版本的同步表结构功能和修复某些缺陷。具体请参见本篇文档中的 **问题修复**。

### 版本信息

* **当前版本：** V4.3.1-BP

* **前置版本：** V4.3.1

* **发版时间：** 2024 年 8 月 13 日

* **支持的升级路径：** 对于 ODC V2.0.0 及之后的版本，均可直接升级至本版本。

### 功能变更

- 新增限制 MySQL 5.7 之前版本的同步表结构功能。

### 问题修复

* 修复 Windows 家庭版无法安装桌面版 ODC V4.3.1 的缺陷。

* 修复响应的内容类型为 text/plain 时，通知告警失败的缺陷。

* 修复调用 SQL 语句中的函数时，权限检查报错并拦截的缺陷。

* 修复仅拥有一张表的导出权限却可以整库导出的缺陷。

* 修复表的外键约束中 `ON DELETE` 规则展示不正确的缺陷。

* 修复普通用户发起的任务匹配到风险等级后，报错无权限查看任务详情的缺陷。

* 修复再次发起按照指定分区进行的数据归档任务时，未勾选指定分区的缺陷。

* 修复项目管理员查看工单详情时，详情页面中未展示 **编辑**、**终止** 等操作按钮的缺陷。

* 修复申请库权限时，**选择数据库** 选项一直处于加载中的缺陷。

* 修复申请表权限任务时，可选库中未置灰无效数据库的缺陷。

* 修复单击鼠标右键打开 SQL 开发窗口中的数据库对象结构树，打开的操作框太窄导致可操作项内容展示不全的缺陷。

## ODC V4.3.1

ODC V4.3.1 released in July 2024 enhances the following features:

- Risk management: ODC V4.3.1 introduces the fine-grained table-level permission control feature to enhance the monitoring of change risks.
- Analytical processing (AP) features: ODC V4.3.1 provides real-time execution analysis of SQL plans to ensure real-time SQL diagnostics in a more direct and interactive manner.
- User experience: ODC V4.3.1 supports data cleanup task editing, improves batch data source import capabilities, and optimizes session management in non-direct-connection scenarios.

For more information, see the “Feature updates” section.

### Version information

* **Current version:** V4.3.1

* **Previous version:** V4.3.0

* **Release date:** July 31, 2024

* **Supported upgrade path:** You can directly upgrade ODC V2.0.0 and later to this version.

### Feature updates

- Change risk management

  - ODC V4.3.1 provides table-level permission control to further enhance management collaboration. A project member can have different operation permissions on different tables, such as the query, change, and export permissions on tables.

- AP development

  ODC V4.3.1 provides real-time execution analysis and displays the `sql_plan_monitor` view in a visual and interactive manner.

  - To use this feature, you must configure a data source of OceanBase V4.2.4 or later and prior to OceanBase V4.3.0, or of OceanBase V4.3.3 or later versions.

  - You can analyze a completed SQL statement, or perform real-time analysis during the execution of an SQL statement.

  - ODC V4.3.1 displays execution plans in the graphic view, table view, and text view to display the connections between operators and the execution sequence of the operators in a more direct manner.

  - The global view displays the top 5 time-consuming operators in order and provides a summary of executions in each phase. You can quickly locate performance bottlenecks based on the global view.

  - An operator node comprises the execution status and details of the operator, including the CPU, memory, disk, number of returned rows, and node attributes.

  - You can sort parallel execution nodes by DB time, I/O memory, and number of returned rows to quickly locate data skew issues. You can analyze both standalone execution plans and distributed execution plans.

  - ODC V4.3.1 provides a new integrated real-time diagnostics page, on which you can perform analysis based on the execution plan and end-to-end diagnostics.

- Session management

  You can end a session or query in non-direct-connection scenarios.

  - When you connect to OceanBase Database V4.2.3 or later through ODP V4.2.5 or later, you can manage sessions based on client session capabilities.

  - In Oracle mode of OceanBase Database V4.2.1, you can manage sessions based on anonymous blocks.

- Ease-of-use improvements

  - You can edit the configurations of a data cleanup task.

  - You can import MySQL, Oracle, and Doris data sources in batches.

- Compatibility with OceanBase Database

  - ODC V4.3.1 supports all features of OceanBase Database V4.2.4, V4.3.1, and V4.3.2.

### Bug fixes

* Data lifecycle management

  - Fixed the issue where table schema comparison is performed even when table schema synchronization is disabled.

* Change risk management

  - Fixed the issue where automatic authorization rules do not take effect for LoginSuccess events.

  - Fixed the issue where a risk level cannot be specified for database permission application operations.

* Import and export

  - Fixed the issue where after Client ODC is reinstalled, the import task may be affected by imported files of historical tasks.

* SQL check

  - Fixed the issue where after the SQL window specifications are enabled, the submit and rollback buttons in the SQL window may become unavailable.

* SQL development

  - Fixed the issue where a NullPointerException (NPE) may be returned during PL debugging.

  - Fixed the issue where an error occurs while executing the SQL statement for modifying session variables in Oracle mode.

  - Fixed the issue where SQL execution fails if you do not have the `SELECT` privilege on `oceanbase.*` views.

  - Fixed the issue where the copied value is empty when you click **Copy** in the right-click context menu to copy data of a time type to an SQL statement in Oracle mode.

  - Fixed the issue where the execution of a package is blocked because the package is mistakenly identified as a schema.

  - Fixed the issue where if the schema in an anonymous block is not identified, you can use the anonymous block to access unauthorized schemas.

* Data mocking

  - Fixed the issue where a data mocking task cannot be terminated.

* Global object retrieval

  - Fixed the issue where object synchronization cannot be stopped.

* Tickets

  - Fixed the issue where the SQL check result cannot be obtained if the check result file does not exist locally.

* Audit

  - Fixed the issue where values in the `content_ip_address` column exceed the length limit of the column.

* Data archiving and cleanup

  - Fixed the issue where the data cleanup task is still in progress when data archiving fails.

* Partitioning plans

  - Fixed the issue where the data type of the partitioning key cannot be identified in MySQL mode.

* Others

  - Fixed the issue where if you schedule tasks in process mode in a multi-node deployment scenario, all tasks will be scheduled to the same node.

### Known issues

* Client ODC cannot be installed in a directory whose name contains Chinese characters.

* The exported data file and content are incorrectly displayed when the table contains virtual columns.

* In Web ODC, the maximum size of schemas or data imported in a batch cannot exceed 2 GB. Otherwise, the upload cannot be performed.

* In Web ODC, the maximum size of schemas or data exported in a batch cannot exceed 2 GB. The excess part will be lost after the export.

* In the details of an export task, the total number of records of the exported objects is not accurate but depends on the views of OceanBase Database.

* If you do not set the `ob_enable_trace_log` parameter to `on`, only the execution plans of the SQL statements executed for the first time are displayed.

### Acknowledgments

Our acknowledgments go to partners in OceanBase Community for their contributions to this version.

We highly appreciate the Shusheng technical team @isadba for their contribution to the table-level permission control capability.

## References

- [ODC Community Edition](https://github.com/oceanbase/odc)

- [ODC Enterprise Edition](https://www.oceanbase.com/product/odc)