Overview 
=============================

A view is a virtual table created based on one or more tables or views. The tables on which the view is based are called base tables. Views do not store data. You can use views to query and modify data in base tables. Therefore, the definition of a view is stored in the data dictionary, and no data copy related to the view definition is stored in the database. Views are similar to physical tables in the database, so you can perform operations on views like on tables. When you modify data in a view, you are actually modifying data in base tables. Conversely, the modification of data in base tables is also reflected in views generated based on these base tables. 

Log on to OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) and click the name of the target connection to go to the corresponding connection management page. You can click View in the left-side navigation pane to get a list of views. In the view list, you can double-click a view name to go to the view management page. On this page, you can check the data of the view on the Data tab or the attributes such as the basic information, columns, and DDL statements of the view on the Attribute tab. 

The database version must meet the following requirements:


|             Database              |          Version          |
|-----------------------------------|---------------------------|
| OceanBase Database in Oracle mode | V2.0.0 or a later version |
| OceanBase Database in MySQL mode  | V1.4.1 or a later version |



This chapter describes in different topics the operations you can perform on view objects in ODC.

* [Create a view](../2.web-odc-view-objects/2.web-odc-create-a-view.md)

  

* [Manage views](../2.web-odc-view-objects/3.web-odc-manage-views.md)

  



