Overview 
=============================

OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) provides the database import and export features and the table import and export features, to facilitate database data maintenance for database developers. The database import and export features allow you to import data to or export data from selected tables in the database in batches. The table import and export features allow you to import data to or export data from the target table. 

ODC provides a **Task Center** page. After you create an import or export task, this page displays the current import or export task. You can also view task details and logs on this page. 

> **Notice**<br>
> <li> OceanBase Database of a version earlier than V2.2.30 supports only UTF8.</li>
> <li> In ODC V2.2.1 and earlier versions, to use the import and export features, you must connect ODC to the target instance through OBProxy. If you directly connect ODC to the target instance, the import and export features are unavailable.</li>
> <li> In ODC V2.4.1 and later, you can use the sys tenant account to accelerate the import and export tasks. To export objects other than tables and views, you must configure the sys tenant account.</li>

  




This chapter describes the import/export features in different topics.

* [Export and import formats](../../../7.client-odc-user-guide/5.client-odc-use-tools/1.client-odc-data-export-and-import/2.client-odc-export-and-import-formats.md)

  

* [Batch export and import](../1.web-odc-data-export-and-import/3.web-odc-batch-export-and-import.md)

  

* [Single table export and import](../1.web-odc-data-export-and-import/4.web-odc-single-table-export-and-import.md)

  



