PL objects cannot be executed or an execution error is returned
===================================

PL objects cannot be executed
------------------------------

### Symptom

When a PL statement is executed in ODC, an error message is returned, indicating that the database object referenced by the table or another PL statement does not exist.

```shell
ORA-00942: table or view does not exist
```

### Possible causes

The user executing the PL object does not have privileges on the objects in the PL object. For more information about the privileges of PL objects in Oracle mode, see the [Oracle documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/B19306_01/network.102/b14266/authoriz.htm#DBSEG50000).

### Affected versions

All versions of client ODC and web ODC

### Solutions

Grant corresponding privileges to the user.

SQL syntax error
-----------------------------

### Symptom

A PL statement containing a comment prefix fails to be executed, and the OBServer node returns the SQL syntax error.

### Possible causes

OceanBase Database V3.1.x has a known defect in statement parsing in this scenario. This issue has been fixed in OceanBase Database V3.1.x PATCH and V3.2.x PATCH.

### Affected versions

* ODC V3.x

* OceanBase Database V3.1.x

### Solutions

#### Solution 1

Upgrade OceanBase Database to the latest PATCH version.

#### Solution 2

For web ODC V3.2.2 and later, you can use the ODC system configuration to enable the comment prefix removal feature. You can connect to the ODC MetaDB to modify the configuration. Here is the sample command:

```sql
-- enable  remove comment prefix configuration
UPDATE config_system_configuration SET `value` ='true'
  WHERE `key` = 'odc.session.sql-execute.oracle.remove-comment-prefix';
```

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
  <h4>Notice</h4>
  <ul>
  <li>The modification takes effect after 3 minutes and does not require a restart of odc-server. </li>
  <li>ODC versions earlier than V3.2.2 do not support this configuration. You must delete the comment prefix from the statement before executing it. </li>
  </ul>
</main>