ODC V3.4.0
===========================

OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) V3.4.0 released in September 2022 provides the following new features: logon verification code, dark theme, data desensitization, application and approval for data connection permissions, and OAuth 2.0 authorization. The new version also optimizes features such as import and export, result sets, table object management, database change, and session status labeling. 

Version information 
----------------------------------------

* **Current version:** V3.4.0


* **Previous version:** V3.3.3


* **Version release date:** September 9, 2022


* **Supported upgrade path:** You can directly upgrade ODC V2.0.0 and later to this version.




Supported OceanBase Database versions 
----------------------------------------------------------

ODC V3.4.0 is applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions:

* General ODC features are applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions:

  * OceanBase Database V1.4.x (mainly V1.4.7)


  
  * OceanBase Database V2.0.x


  
  * OceanBase Database V2.1.x


  
  * OceanBase Database V2.2.x (mainly V2.2.7)

  
  * OceanBase Database V3.1.x (mainly V3.1.2)


  * OceanBase Database V3.2.x (mainly V3.2.4)


  
  * OceanBase Community Edition, which does not support the procedural language (PL) capabilities of ODC


  

  

* The PL capabilities of ODC are applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions:

  * OceanBase Database V2.2.7, V3.0.x, and later support the compilation of PL functions, stored procedures, and packages, the debugging of PL functions and stored procedures, and the debugging of anonymous blocks. We recommend that you use OceanBase Database V3.2.3 BP4 or later for better debugging performance.


  
  * OceanBase Database V2.0.x and later support the running of anonymous blocks and PL functions, stored procedures, and packages.


  

  




Updates of deployment requirements 
-------------------------------------------------------

Internal remote procedure call (RPC) listening ports are deleted in ODC V3.4.0 and later.

Feature updates 
------------------------------------

### **Basic features** 

* GUI updates

  * You can seamlessly switch between the default theme and the dark theme with one click.


  
  * The icon system is redesigned. In the new design, filled icons are applied to database objects and window tabs for easier identification, and outlined icons are used for SQL windows and PL windows to make operations in the windows more direct and flexible.


  

* SQL execution

  * Syntax highlighting is optimized so that the current line is highlighted.


  * Statements with errors can be quickly located and highlighted.


  * SQL autocomplete options are sorted in an optimized way for display.



* Table objects

  * The table object management page is thoroughly updated in the new version for more complete features and easier interaction.

  * Interaction capabilities are upgraded to provide users with more controllable interaction experience.


  * Table objects in the Oracle mode and MySQL mode are distinguished in a fine-grained manner. The expression, index type, whether a column is virtual, and whether a column is visible can be set. The \`SET\` and \`ENUM\` data types are supported for columns. The following column attributes can be set: character set, symbol selection, and \`ON UPDATE CURRENT_TIMESTAMP\` that specifies whether to automatically update the date.


  * Rules that adapt to OceanBase Database are added. Examples: 1. If you do not create a column when you create a table, you are prompted that you cannot create the table. 2. A field is automatically generated with the default length based on the field type. 3. An auto-increment column can be reset to a regular column, but not vice versa. 4. Exclusion between column attributes is internally set. For example, no default values can be set for an auto-increment column.

* Result sets

  * Right-alignment of numbers, adaptive column width, and precision matching are supported to optimize the display format of result sets.


  * You can add a data row at a specified position.


  * You can set the number of data rows to be exported from the result set.

  * CSV files that store exported data are compatible with Excel by default.


  * When data is to be exported in Excel files from the result set, you can set whether to include column headers and whether to export SQL query statements.


  * Uncommon characters can be displayed in Windows.


* Import and export

  * The import and export settings page is upgraded from configuration on a single page to wizard-based configuration, which provides step-by-step guidance. Default configurations are also optimized to reduce costs.


  * Import files are verified. Messages displayed upon verification failures are more friendly.


  * Files exported by ODC of earlier versions can be imported to ODC of the new version that boasts higher compatibility.


  * You can export an entire database without an extra operation of selecting all the objects.


  * You can configure the data desensitization strategy for data export.


  * The limit on the size of import and export files is removed in the ODC client.




* Experience improvement

  * SQL statement formatting is supported for SQL preview in scenarios such as object management and data change.


  * An SQL window tab displays the session status to indicate the execution progress of the SQL statements in the session.


  * The display format of task logs is optimized. Different log levels are displayed in different colors.


  * In Windows, you can press \`Ctrl + C\` to copy content in the CLI.


  * Task logs can be downloaded.


### **Collaborative control**

* Change control

  * You can apply for database connection permissions. The permissions are automatically granted upon approval by the administrator. The administrator can also grant or revoke permissions as required.


  * The administrator can configure different approval processes for different scenarios such as database change, export, import, and data mocking.


  * The administrator can configure automatic approval nodes where approvers can view the task to be approved and do not need to manually confirm the approval.


  * You can set the execution time when you initiate a database change task.


  * The SQL window automatically identifies SQL statements that require approval before execution. When you execute such an SQL statement, you are prompted to create a database change task for this operation.


* Data desensitization

  * Static data desensitization is supported. You can enable a data desensitization strategy for scenarios such as data export and result set export.


  * Built-in desensitization rules are provided. Data such as email addresses, bank card numbers, landline numbers, mobile phone numbers, ID card numbers, and names can be desensitized based on the rules.


  * A desensitization strategy matches against desensitization rules through wildcard pattern matching of \`database name.table name.field name\`.


  * Custom desensitization rules are supported. You can choose regular desensitization algorithms such as masking, character replacement, format retaining, hashing, rounding, and null value assignment.


* System integration

  * OAuth 2.0 authorization is supported.


Fixed issues 
---------------------------------

* Import and export

  * Log generation for a task is disturbed by other tasks when multiple import or export tasks run in parallel.

  
  * In MySQL mode, if you do not have required privileges on the MySQL schema, the system displays an error message when you import or export data.


  
  * CSV column mapping may fail during the import of a single table.


  * If you do not select any tables for data export, the system displays an error message.



  

* SQL/PL execution

  * During PL execution, the DBMS_OUTPUT tab cannot display the output data if the output data exceeds 1 MB in length.


  
  * The result set fails to be exported if the database is switched after an SQL query.


  
  * When you execute a PL block in an SQL window, statement splitting fails if \`CASE... WHEN\` is contained in SQL statements in the PL block.


  
  * In Oracle mode, TIMESTAMP fields are displayed in incorrect precision.


  
  * In MySQL mode, DATETIME fields are displayed with a redundant \`'.0'\`.


  
  * When you export the result set as an Excel file and choose not to include column headers, the exported Excel file still contains column headers.


  
  * Large object (LOB) fields in the result set are incorrectly displayed in column mode.


  
  * After you choose the independent session mode for SQL windows in personal settings, a pop-up window is displayed when you click the submit icon or the rollback icon.



  

* Security hardening

  * Verification code is unavailable for logon verification.


  
  * Some resources are not protected against horizontal privilege escalation.

  * Database type identification is not supported.



  

* Other modules

  * When you choose not to connect to a disconnected database for the time being, the system keeps prompting you of the disconnection.

  
  * The DELIMITER command does not take effect in database change tasks.


  * Custom fields are converted into character strings during the creation of a view.


  * DDL formatting fails when you view a sequence.


  * In Oracle mode, the username is not passed to the COMMENT ON TABLE statement on the DDL tab of a table.


  * In MySQL mode, the ON UPDATE CURRENT_TIMESTAMP attribute of a field is lost after the comment on the field is modified.


  * When you click the corresponding tab on the task details panel to view task logs, the system does not respond instantly.

  * Some UI strings are incorrectly translated.


  




Known issues 
---------------------------------

* In web ODC, the maximum size of schemas or data imported in a batch cannot exceed 2 GB. An oversize file cannot be uploaded.



* In web ODC, the maximum size of schemas or data exported in a batch cannot exceed 2 GB. The excess part will be lost after the export.


* In the details of an export task, the total number of records of the exported objects is not accurate but depends on the views of OceanBase Database.


* Unless you set the `ob_enable_trace_log` parameter to `on`, only the execution plans of the SQL statements executed for the first time are displayed.