# Overview

This topic describes how to upgrade Web OceanBase Developer Center (ODC).

## Upgrade types

- [Upgrade single-node ODC](310.upgrade-single-node-odc.md): To upgrade ODC deployed on a single node, you need to upgrade only ODC on this node to the new version.

- [Upgrade high-availability ODC](410.upgrade-high-availability-odc.md): To upgrade ODC that is deployed on multiple nodes for high availability, you need to upgrade ODC to the new version on all nodes. You can choose to upgrade the Nginx image to the latest version when you upgrade ODC that is deployed in high-availability mode.

## Upgrade process

Perform the following steps to upgrade Web ODC:

1. [Stop ODC of the earlier version](../1200.upgrade-guide/310.upgrade-single-node-odc.md): Stop the ODC container of the earlier version in Docker.

2. Back up the MetaDB: Back up data in the MetaDB for ODC of the current version in files. When you need to roll back ODC later, you can restore the MetaDB by using the backup files.

3. [Start ODC of the new version](../1200.upgrade-guide/410.upgrade-high-availability-odc.md): Load and run the ODC image of the new version on the server.

4. Upgrade the Nginx image: For ODC deployed in single-node mode, if you have configured an SSL certificate and deployed the Nginx image, you can upgrade the Nginx image based on the steps in the process for upgrading high-availability ODC.

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
     <h4>Note</h4>
     <ul>
     <li>The initial username of the Web ODC administrator is <code>admin</code>. When you deploy Web ODC, you can set the initial password of this administrator account by using the environment variable <code>ODC_ADMIN_INITIAL_PASSWORD</code>. For more information, see <a href="../1200.upgrade-guide/310.upgrade-single-node-odc.md">Load and run an ODC image</a>. </li>
     <li>For information about how to log on to Web ODC, see <a href="../300.quickstart/200.web-odc-quickstart/200.quickstart-deployment-odc.md">Log on to Web ODC</a>. </li>
     </ul>
   </main>



