# ODC V4.1.3

## ODC V4.1.3

OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) V4.1.3 released in May 2023 adapts to OceanBase Database V4.1.0. OBLODER & OBDUMPER is upgraded to V4.2.3 and oceanbase-client to V2.4.3. Oceanbase-client is the driver of OceanBase Database.

### Version information

* **Current version:** V4.1.3

* **Previous version:** V4.1.2

* **Release date:** May 24, 2023

* **Supported upgrade path:** You can directly upgrade ODC V2.0.0 and later to this version.

### Supported OceanBase Database versions

This section describes the OceanBase Database versions supported by ODC V4.1.3.

* General ODC features apply in the following OceanBase Database versions:

   * OceanBase Database V1.4.x (mainly V1.4.7)

   * OceanBase Database V2.0.x

   * OceanBase Database V2.1.x

   * OceanBase Database V2.2.x (mainly V2.2.7)

   * OceanBase Database V3.1.x (mainly V3.1.2)

   * OceanBase Database V3.2.x (mainly V3.2.4)

   * OceanBase Database V4.0.0

   * OceanBase Database V4.1.0

   * OceanBase Database Community Edition

* The PL capabilities of ODC apply in the following OceanBase Database versions:

   * OceanBase Database V2.2.7, V3.0.x, and later support the compilation of PL functions, stored procedures, and packages, the debugging of PL functions and stored procedures, and the debugging of anonymous blocks. We recommend that you use OceanBase Database V3.2.3 BP4 or later for better debugging performance.

   * OceanBase Database V2.0.x and later support the running of anonymous blocks and PL functions, stored procedures, and packages.

### Feature updates

* OceanBase Database V4.1.0 is supported.

### Dependency libraries upgraded

* OBLOADER & OBDUMPER is upgraded to V4.2.3.

* oceanbase-client is upgraded to V2.4.3.

### Bug fixes

* Collaborative control

   * Fixed an issue that a user can add the account of another user without authorization. This issue is related to resource management privileges.

   * Fixed an issue that when you use the system_admin role to create another role, an error prompting insufficient privileges is returned.

   * Fixed an issue that horizontal privilege escalation exists in the task status query API.

   * Fixed an issue that vertical privilege escalation exists in role editing.

   * Fixed an issue that tasks cannot be manually stopped. A manually stopped task still continues to run.

* SQL execution

   * Fixed an issue that SQL statements with a language identifier cannot be executed.

   * Fixed an issue that hints in an SQL statement become invalid when an error occurs in the execution of the SQL statement.

   * Fixed an issue that the auto table name completion feature is unavailable in Oracle mode when you edit an SQL statement.

   * Fixed an issue that if a created PL statement contains a WHILE-LOOP clause, an extra semicolon appears at the end of the clause.

   * Fixed an issue that PL execution is hung when a large PL statement is involved.

* Import and export

   * Fixed an issue that no error log is generated for a task that fails to be started.

   * Fixed an issue that no public synonym exists in the list of exported database objects.

   * Fixed an issue that the export package contains built-in packages of ODC.

   * Fixed an issue that ODC cannot export temporary tables.

* Database changes

   * Fixed an issue that when database change requests are created, the specified execution timeout period is invalid.

* Connection management

   * Fixed an issue that when you create a connection, after you enter the database username and password and click **Test Connection**, the endpoint of the cloud service cannot be identified.

* Database objects

   * Fixed an issue that the details about built-in table objects in the `mysql` database cannot be viewed in MySQL mode.

   * Fixed an issue that when a timeout error occurs during PL object execution, the error cannot be resolved by modifying the corresponding session variable.

* Security hardening

   * Fixed an issue that the password of the admin account of ODC cannot be changed by setting a global environment variable.

   * Fixed an issue that the Fastjson library is outdated. The Fastjson library is upgraded to 1.2.83_noneautotype.

### Known issues

* ODC client cannot be installed in a directory whose name contains Chinese characters.

* The exported data file and content are incorrectly displayed when the table contains virtual columns.

* On web ODC, the maximum size of schemas or data imported in a batch cannot exceed 2 GB. Otherwise, the upload cannot be performed.

* On web ODC, the maximum size of schemas or data exported in a batch cannot exceed 2 GB. The excess part will be lost after the export.

* In the details of an export task, the total number of records of the exported objects is not accurate but depends on the views of OceanBase Database.

* If you do not set the `ob_enable_trace_log` parameter to `on`, only the execution plans of the SQL statements executed for the first time are displayed.

## ODC V4.1.3 BP

ODC V4.1.3 released in June 2023 fixed some bugs reported by users.

### Version information

* **Current version**: V4.1.3 BP

* **Previous version:** V4.1.3

* **Version release date:** June 19, 2023

* **Supported upgrade path:** You can directly upgrade ODC V2.0.0 and later to this version.

### Supported OceanBase Database versions

This section describes the OceanBase Database versions supported by ODC V4.1.3 BP.

* General ODC features apply in the following OceanBase Database versions:

   * OceanBase Database V1.4.x (mainly V1.4.7)

   * OceanBase Database V2.0.x

   * OceanBase Database V2.1.x

   * OceanBase Database V2.2.x (mainly V2.2.7)

   * OceanBase Database V3.1.x (mainly V3.1.2)

   * OceanBase Database V3.2.x (mainly V3.2.4)

   * OceanBase Database V4.0.0

   * OceanBase Database V4.1.0

   * OceanBase Database Community Edition

* The PL capabilities of ODC apply in the following OceanBase Database versions:

   * OceanBase Database V2.2.7, V3.0.x, and later support the compilation of PL functions, stored procedures, and packages, the debugging of PL functions and stored procedures, and the debugging of anonymous blocks. We recommend that you use OceanBase Database V3.2.3 BP4 or later for better debugging performance.

   * OceanBase Database V2.0.x and later support the running of anonymous blocks and PL functions, stored procedures, and packages.


### Bug fixes

* PL debugging

   * Fixed an issue that an error occurs while stepping into a PL procedure defined after the `IS` keyword of the debugged PL procedure.

   * Fixed an issue that during the debugging of a PL function that contains an IN/OUT parameter, if the parameter value is set to NULL, the value actually passed in is 0.

* SQL execution

   * Fixed an issue that when a `SELECT DISTINCT` statement is executed in Oracle mode of OceanBase Database, the result set may contain duplicate data.

   * Fixed an issue that the SQL_MODE system variable set in ODC does not take effect after reconnection.

   * Fixed an issue that when ODC executes the `show trace where keyvalue` statement, an alert is generated because this statement is not supported in some OceanBase Database versions.

* Task center

   * Fixed an issue that if a scheduled task is interrupted when partitioning plan tasks are executed, the remaining tasks are not executed.

   * Fixed an issue that vertical privilege escalation exists when you view the details of SQL plan tasks.

* Database changes

   * Fixed an issue that when database changes are executed, tasks are retried before they are completed.

* Database objects

   * Fixed an issue that CLOB text in result sets does not wrap.

   * Fixed an issue that after the default value for a column is deleted from the Attribute tab in ODC, the default value does not take effect.

   * Fixed an issue that if a table containing a hidden column is edited, an SQL statement for changing the column name is generated.

   * Fixed an issue that if an invalid time value is inserted into a table in MySQL mode, the results returned by ODC and OBClient are different.

   * Fixed an issue that if the ON DELETE and NO ACTION options are selected when a FOREIGN KEY constraint is added to a table in Oracle mode, the two options are concatenated as "ON DELETE NO ACTION" in the generated DDL statement. This is a syntax error.