Overview 
=============================

As a database development platform for enterprises, OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) provides a public resource console to enable the ODC administrator to manage users, grant permissions, and allocate resources. 

The ODC administrator can see the **Public Resource Console** tab on the right side of the ODC homepage. The console enables the ODC administrator to manage users, roles, public connections, resource groups, and system settings. 

In addition to the built-in **system_admin** role, the ODC administrator must create other roles as needed and grant appropriate permissions to the roles on the Role Management page. After the roles are created, the administrator can batch create new ODC accounts on the User Management page for users in the organization and assign roles to the users for permission authorization and control. 

After ODC users obtain the database access information, they can create private connections in ODC. A private connection is accessible only to the user who creates it. For the security of the enterprise, database access information is not shared with all users. The administrator can create public connections in ODC, combine multiple public connections to create resource groups, and grant the access permission on public connections or resource groups to specific roles. As the public connections of a role are shared to all users with the role, the administrator does not need to share the access information with all users. 

The administrator can configure global settings on the System Settings page. 

This chapter describes the following features of the public resource console:

* [Quick start](../4.web-odc-public-resource-management/2.web-odc-public-resource-quickstart.md)

  

* [Manage users](3.web-odc-public-resource-permission/4.web-odc-manage-users.md)

  

* [Manage roles](3.web-odc-public-resource-permission/3.web-odc-manage-roles.md)

  

* [Manage public connections](3.web-odc-public-resource-permission/1.web-odc-manage-public-connection.md)

  

* [Manage resource groups](3.web-odc-public-resource-permission/2.web-odc-manage-resource-groups.md)

  

* [Task processes](../4.web-odc-public-resource-management/4.web-odc-task-process.md)

  

* [Operation records](../4.web-odc-public-resource-management/5.web-odc-operating-records.md)

  

* [System settings](../4.web-odc-public-resource-management/6.web-odc-system-settings.md)

  




