# ODC V4.1.1

OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) V4.1.1 released in February mainly fixed issues in previous versions, such as the slow SQL queries, logic error of logon with an Alibaba Cloud Security Token Service (STS) account, connection failure for CLI logon with a password containing special characters, and horizontal privilege escalation. The table query performance is also improved. For more information about the changes, see the list of fixed issues.

## Version information

* **Current version:** V4.1.1

* **Previous version:** V4.1.0

* **Version release date:** February 24, 2023

* **Supported upgrade path:** You can directly upgrade ODC V2.0.0 and later to this version.




## Supported OceanBase Database versions

ODC V4.1.0 is applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions:

* General ODC features are applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions:

   * OceanBase Database V1.4.x (mainly V1.4.7)

   * OceanBase Database V2.0.x

   * OceanBase Database V2.1.x

   * OceanBase Database V2.2.x (mainly V2.2.7)

   * OceanBase Database V3.1.x (mainly V3.1.2)

   * OceanBase Database V3.2.x (mainly V3.2.4)

   * OceanBase Database V4.0.0

   * OceanBase Database Community Edition




* The PL capabilities of ODC are applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions:

   * OceanBase Database V2.2.7, V3.0.x, and later support the compilation of PL functions, stored procedures, and packages, the debugging of PL functions and stored procedures, and the debugging of anonymous blocks. We recommend that you use OceanBase Database V3.2.3 BP4 or later for better debugging performance.

   * OceanBase Database V2.0.x and later support the running of anonymous blocks and PL functions, stored procedures, and packages.




## Fixed issues

* Database objects

   * SQL statements generated during database object deletion or restoration in the recycle bin cannot be executed.

   * The index range corresponding to the primary key in Oracle mode is incorrectly displayed as LOCAL.

   * Modifying a column of a table may fail due to a character set mismatch.

* SQL execution

   * SQL queries are executed slowly.

   * The time of the JDBC prepare phase is calculated incorrectly during the execution of PL statements.

   * An error may occur during the execution of clauses in an SQL statement when the delimiter is a slash (/).

* Connection management

   * An error is reported when a user opens a connection without saving the password.

   * The connection fails occasionally in the SQL window.

   * An error is returned when a user without database permissions attempts to access a connection.

* ApsaraDB for OceanBase

   * The names of files downloaded when you use ApsaraDB for OceanBase may be incorrect.

   * The logic of logon with an Alibaba Cloud STS account is incorrect.

   * A connection becomes invalid when the corresponding connection instance is saved after repeated modification.

* Other modules

   * The connection fails during CLI logon with a password containing special characters.

   * The corresponding roles cannot be found during process configuration.

   * The precision is not specified in ON UPDATE CURRENT_TIMESTAMP during shadow table synchronization.

   * The ODC client fails to start due to environment variable conflicts.

* User experience optimization

   * The display of error messages for ApsaraDB for OceanBase is corrected.

   * The table information retrieval performance in MySQL mode is optimized for scenarios with a large number of tables and columns.

* Security hardening

   * The fastjson dependency library is upgraded to V1.2.83 of the noneautotype edition.

   * The privilege escalation vulnerability is fixed.

## Known issues

* The ODC client cannot be installed in a directory whose name contains Chinese characters.

* The exported data file and content are incorrectly displayed when the table contains virtual columns.

* In web ODC, the maximum size of schemas or data imported in a batch cannot exceed 2 GB. An oversize file cannot be uploaded.

* In web ODC, the maximum size of schemas or data exported in a batch cannot exceed 2 GB. The excess part will be lost after the export.

* In the details of an export task, the total number of records of the exported objects is not accurate but depends on the views of OceanBase Database.

* Unless you set the `ob_enable_trace_log` parameter to `on`, only the execution plans of the SQL statements executed for the first time are displayed.