View the performance of an SQL statement 
=============================================================

This topic describes how to view the performance of an SQL statement in OceanBase Developer Center (ODC). 

Background information 
-------------------------------

SQL is a database language that provides multiple features such as data manipulation and data definition. Most database developers manage and develop database content by using SQL statements. Therefore, the performance of SQL statements affects the performance of the database. SQL provides the `EXPLAIN` command, which allows you to view the specific steps for executing an SQL statement in the database. You can judge and improve the performance of the SQL statement based on the execution steps. 

As a powerful enterprise-level database development platform, ODC provides a graphical user interface (GUI) for you to view the execution plans of SQL statements. ODC allows you to directly and conveniently view the execution status and analyze the performance of SQL statements. 

Prerequisites 
----------------------

A sample table named "employees" has been created by running the following statement:

```javascript
CREATE TABLE employees(
    emp_id INTEGER,
    emp_name VARCHAR(20),
    manager_id INTEGER
);

INSERT INTO employees VALUES ( 1, 'Anna', 6 ) ;
INSERT INTO employees VALUES ( 2, 'Brain', 4 ) ;
INSERT INTO employees VALUES ( 3, 'Candy', 4 ) ;
INSERT INTO employees VALUES ( 4, 'David', 5 ) ;
INSERT INTO employees VALUES ( 5, 'Eva', NULL) ;
INSERT INTO employees VALUES ( 6, 'Frank', 5 ) ;
INSERT INTO employees VALUES ( 7, 'Gary', 6 ) ;
```



Procedure 
------------------

1. After you enter the connection, enter the following `SELECT` statement in the editing area of the SQL window to view the data in the table named "employees": 

   ```javascript
   SELECT * FROM employees;
   ```

   




<!-- -->

2. Click **Plan** in the toolbar in the editing area. 

   Before you run the statements, you can click **Plan** to view the estimated execution plan of the SQL statement selected or where the cursor is located in the current editing area. The estimated execution plan is actually the result of the `EXPLAIN PLAN` operation. The estimated plan may be slightly different from the actual plan, but you can assess the SQL statement in advance.
   

3. In the **Plan Details** panel, view the estimated execution plan before you execute the SQL statement. 

   The **Planned Statistics Collection** tab in the **Plan Details** panel displays following information:
   






4. Run the statement. 

   Click **Run** in the toolbar to execute the `SELECT` statement.
   

5. Click **Plan** in the toolbar of the result set, to view the execution plan after the statement is executed. 

   The **Execution Details** page displays the actual execution plan.
   

6. View the basic information of the statement in the **Basic Info** section of the **Execution Details** panel. 

   The **Basic Info** section displays the following information:
   






7. View the time statistics of the statement in the **Time Spent** section of the **Execution Details** panel. 

   The **Time Spent** section displays the following information and corresponding proportions in a bar graph.
   






8. View the I/O statistics of the statement in the **I/O Statistics** section of the **Execution Details** panel. 

   The **I/O Statistics** section displays the following information:
   






9. View the plan statistics of the statement on the **Planned Statistics Collection** tab of the **Execution Details** panel. 

   The **Planned Statistics Collection** tab displays the actual execution plan in a structured manner. This tab is the same as the **Plan Details** tab in structure. For more information about this tab, see the information about the **Planned Statistics Collection** tab in Step 3.
   

10. View the outline of the statement in the **Outline** section of the **Execution Details** panel. 

    The **Outline** section displays the corresponding content of `OUTLINE DATA` in results returned by the execution plan. The content in this section is a set of hints generated by the optimizer for the purpose of fully reproduce a plan.
    



