# Command-line window

This topic introduces how to create a command-line window.

## Background information

OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) integrates the CLI tool OceanBase Client (OBClient) in the form of a command-line window. OBClient is the recommended CLI client for OceanBase Database. ODC allows you to use OBClient without a need to download or install it. In the command-line window, you can directly execute SQL or PL statements and view the results in real time. You can also run files uploaded to the server by using the `SOURCE` command.

## Create a command-line window

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
   <h4>Notice</h4>
   <p>You can create up to three command-line windows at a time. If you create more than three command-line windows, the connection status of the windows cannot be guaranteed. </p>
</main>

Assume that you want to insert data to the `employee` table in the `odc_test` database in the command-line window.

| Parameter | Example |
| ------ | ------ |
| Data Source | mysql410 |
| Database Name | odc_test |
| Table Name | employee |

1. In the SQL development window, click the data source `mysql410`.


2. In the command-line window, edit the SQL statement to insert data into the `employee` table.


   ```sql
   INSERT INTO `odc_test`.`employee`(`emp_no`,`birthday`,`name`) VALUES (1001,'2023-07-16','xiaohong');
   ```
3. Edit the SQL statement to query the data inserted into the `employee` table.

   ```sql
   SELECT `emp_no`, `birthday`, `name` FROM `odc_test`.`employee`;
   ```

## References

- [Edit and execute SQL statements](1.sql-editing-and-execution.md)

- [Compile and debug PL objects](2.pl-compile-and-debug.md)

- [Edit and export results](4.result-editing-and-exporting.md)

- [Analyze SQL statements](5.perform-analysis.md)

- [Generate mock data](6.data-mocking.md)

- [Manage database changes](7.database-change.md)

- [Manage partitions](8.partition-scheme.md)

- [Synchronize shadow tables](9.shadow-table-synchronization.md)

- [Change lock-free structures](10.table-structure-change.md)