# Analyze SQL statements

This topic introduces how to view the information about SQL statement execution in the SQL window.

## Background information

The SQL window provides a user interface for data processing. In the SQL window, you can perform systematic evaluation on the SQL statements, analyze the execution details, and view the overall time consumption information.

## Execution plans

Assume that you need to query the `employee` table. Before you query the table, you can perform systematic evaluation on the query statement.

1. In the SQL window, edit the SQL statement for querying the data inserted into the `employee` table.


   ```sql
   SELECT `emp_no`, `birthday`, `name` FROM `odc_test`.`employee`;
   ```
2. As shown in the preceding figure, select an SQL statement and click the **Execution Plan** icon to estimate the execution data (the result of the EXPLAIN PLAN operation) before executing the SQL statement. The execution data displayed may be slightly different from the actual execution data.


3. On the **Plan Details** tab, click **View Formatting Info** to switch to the formatted view.


## Execution details


1. On the **Results** tab, click the **Plan** icon.

2. On the **Execution Details** page, you can view information in the following fields: **Basic Information**, **Time Spent**, **I/O Statistics**, **Executed SQL Statements**, **Plan Statistics**, and **Outline**.

## DB Time


On the **Record** tab, you can move the pointer over the icon next to a value in the **DB Time** column. In the prompt message that appears, you can view the total execution duration of the SQL statement and verify whether the duration of each phase adds up to the total execution duration.

## References

- [Edit and execute SQL statements](1.sql-editing-and-execution.md)

- [Compile and debug PL objects](2.pl-compile-and-debug.md)

- [Command-line window](3.command-line-window.md)

- [Edit and export results](4.result-editing-and-exporting.md)

- [Generate mock data](6.data-mocking.md)

- [Manage database changes](7.database-change.md)

- [Manage partitions](8.partition-scheme.md)

- [Synchronize shadow tables](9.shadow-table-synchronization.md)

- [Change lock-free structures](10.table-structure-change.md)
