ODC V3.3.3 
===============================

OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) V3.3.3 released in August 2022 improves the PL debugging performance, concurrency of database change tasks, and startup speed of ODC client, and optimizes other features.

Version information 
----------------------------------------

* **Current version:** V3.3.3

  

* **Previous version:** V3.3.2

  

* **Version release date:** August 2, 2022

  

* **Supported upgrade path:** You can directly upgrade ODC V2.0.0 and later to this version.

  




Supported OceanBase Database versions 
----------------------------------------------------------

ODC V3.3.3 is applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions: 

* General ODC features are applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions:

  * OceanBase Database V1.4.x (mainly V1.4.7)

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V2.0.x

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V2.1.x

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V2.2.x (mainly V2.2.7)

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V3.1.x (mainly V3.1.2)

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V3.2.x (mainly V3.2.4)

    
  
  * OceanBase Community Edition, which does not support the PL capabilities of ODC

    
  

  

* The PL capabilities of ODC are applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions:

  * OceanBase Database V2.2.7, V3.0.x, and later support the compilation of PL functions, stored procedures, and packages, the debugging of PL functions and stored procedures, and the debugging of anonymous blocks. We recommend that you use OceanBase V3.2.3 BP4 or later for better debugging performance.

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V2.0.x and later support the running of anonymous blocks and PL functions, stored procedures, and packages.

    
  

  




Feature updates 
------------------------------------

* PL objects

  * The line number of the specific error can be displayed when a PL compilation error occurs.

    
  
  * Input parameter adaption and check are supported for PL statements. An input parameter value inconsistent with the corresponding value type is rejected, and an error is returned.

    
  

  

* PL debugging

  * PL debugging in the ARM environment is supported.

    
  
  * Debugging is supported PL statements that contain complex types such as cursors, records, and collections.

    
  
  * Debugging of the GBK character set is supported.

    
  

  

* Deployment and upgrade

  * The first startup of the ODC client on a Windows system is accelerated and takes about 30 seconds.

    
  
  * The `ODC_SERVER_RPC_PORT` variable is provided as one of the environment variables that specify the running of the ODC image. This variable specifies the remote procedure call (RPC) communication listening port for ODC-Server.

    
  

  

* Integration with the bastion host

  * The following two account integration parameters are provided for the ODC system configuration:

    * `odc.integration.bastion.account.query.request-encrypted`: specifies whether to encrypt the request body before a request is sent.

      
    
    * `odc.integration.bastion.account.query.response-encrypted`: specifies whether to encrypt the response body when a response is received.

      
    

    
  

  

* Other modules

  * ODC V3.3.3 supports adaption to variable behavior changes in OceanBase Database V3.2.3 in MySQL and Oracle modes.

    
  
  * The ODC client icon in macOS is optimized.

    
  

  




Fixed issues 
---------------------------------

* PL objects

  * When a user-defined type is used, a running exception is reported for the input parameter package.

    
  
  * The logic for executing functions that contain OUT/INOUT parameters needs to be improved.

    
  
  * Errors are reported in some debugging scenarios.

    
  

  

* PL debugging

  * The step-into and step-out issues occur in anonymous block debugging.

    
  
  * Errors are returned when debugging is reinitiated after a pause upon a configured breakpoint.

    
  
  * The session and resources are continuously occupied because debugging is not completely exited in various scenarios.

    
  
  * The debugging fails when an input parameter value does not conform to the input parameter type.

    
  
  * The display of debug logs is delayed on the ODC frontend.

    
  
  * The result value is not displayed for the OUT parameter when the function debugging ends.

    
  
  * When debugging is resumed after a pause, an error is report and the debugging cannot be exited.

    
  
  * Errors are returned for the debugging of functions that contain the OUT parameter.

    
  

  

* Deployment and upgrade

  * An upgrade from ODC V2.4.0 to a later version may fail.

    
  
  * An upgrade of ODC by using MetaDB of OceanBase Database V1.4.7 may fail.

    
  

  

* Tasks

  * Tasks remain in the pending state in the case of a large number of concurrent tasks.

    
  

  

* SQL windows

  * An error is returned when you open a MySQL connection whose name contains uppercase letters.

    
  
  * Rewriting fails when the table name contains `$` or `/`.

    
  
  * When an SQL query statement that does not contain the ROWID is rewritten into one with a hidden column that contain ROWID values, the rewriting fails and the result set cannot be edited due to logic errors.

    
  

  

* Security hardening

  * Server-side request forgery (SSRF) risks are posed in some scenarios.

    
  
  * The common-configuration2 dependent libraries need to be updated and the CVE-2022-23305 security vulnerability exists.

    
  
  * Some features pose the risk of horizontal privilege escalation.

    
  

  

* Other modules

  * The ODC client startup fails due to timeout in some scenarios in Windows.

    
  
  * In the task flow on the public resource management console, the process configuration permission relies on the user management permission.

    
  
  * The account integration fails in some bastion host integration scenarios.

    
  

  




Known issues 
---------------------------------

* The size of a schema or data to be exported cannot exceed 2 GB. Otherwise, the exported schema or data will be incomplete.

  

* In the details of export tasks, the total number of records of the exported objects is not accurate but depends on the views of OceanBase Database.

  

* The size of a schema or data to be imported cannot exceed 2 GB. Otherwise, the file cannot be uploaded.

  

* Unless you set the `ob_enable_trace_log` parameter to `on`, only the execution plans of the SQL statements executed for the first time are displayed.




