ODC V3.3.0 
===============================

OceanBase Developer Center (ODC) V3.3.0 released in April 2022 provides you with new features of task process and operating records, and updated features of homepage management, connection management, workspace, tools, sessions, recycle bin, task center, database objects, features introduction and help.

Version information 
----------------------------------------

* **Current version:** V3.3.0

  

* **Previous version:** V3.2.3

  

* **Version release date:** April 2, 2022

  

* **Supported upgrade path:** You can directly upgrade ODC V2.0.0 and later to this version.

  




Supported OceanBase Database versions 
----------------------------------------------------------

ODC V3.3.0 is applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions: 

* General ODC features are applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions:

  * OceanBase Database V1.4.x (mainly V1.4.79)

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V2.0.x (mainly V2.2.30)

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V2.1.x (mainly V2.2.77)

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V2.2.x

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V3.1.x

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V3.2.x

    
  
  * OceanBase Database Community Edition, which does not support the PL capabilities of ODC

    
  

  

* The PL capabilities of ODC are applicable to the following OceanBase Database versions:

  * OceanBase Database V2.2.7x, V3.0, and later support the compilation of PL functions, stored procedures, and packages, the debugging of PL functions and stored procedures, and the debugging of anonymous blocks.

    
  
  * OceanBase Database V2.0.x and later support the running of anonymous blocks and PL functions, stored procedures, and packages.

    
  

  




Deployment Requirements Changes 
----------------------------------------------------

Since ODC V3.3.0, ODC provides enterprise-level management and control capabilities such as task change process and operation auditing on the public resource console. Web MetaDB only supports OceanBase V2.2.76 or later, otherwise the verification will fail. OceanBase tenant specification of MetaDB with 2C8G or above is recommended. A low configuration may cause performance problems.

> **Note**  
> ODC will monitor the OceanBase version of MetaDB at startup. If the verification fails, the startup will fail. If your MetaDB cluster version is lower than V2.2.76, you need to upgrade the MetaDB cluster first.

Feature updates 
------------------------------------

* Operating records: Added operation audit capability, mainly including 14 types of events such as personal settings, password management, connection management, and database operations.

  

* Task process: The administrator of the public resource console can configure the approval flow in the task process. Users with read-only permissions on the public connection can complete tasks such as database changes, importing, exporting, and mock data through the approval flow.

  

* Task Center: The asynchronous execution function is upgraded to database changes.

  

* Connection management: Added ODP(Sharding) OceanBase MySQL data source type.

  

* Recycle Bin: Added the function of enabling/disabling the Recycle Bin at the session level.

  

* Session management: The SQL execution window adds the independent Session capability.

  

* Import and export: support OceanBase MySQL export functions and stored procedures; support multi-script file upload, import and asynchronous execution capabilities.

  

* SQL execution: unify script management of SQL window and command line window, support script files up to 250MB; support dragging and dropping database objects on the left side of SQL window to generate DML statements; support PL execution error report and return line number information (OceanBase V3.2.1 or later versions ).

  

* Database objects: remove dependencies for table object partitions to view sys tenant; optimize error messages in the scenario of index creation DDL statement timeout.

  

* Experience improvement: provides built-in HTML documents for quick access to related documents; supports intelligent parsing of public connection configuration command lines; supports quick switching to other connections within a connection; supports connection list adjustment of column width.

  




Fixed issues 
---------------------------------

* Database object management

  * In the editing state of new constraints on table objects, the original constraint information of the table cannot be viewed.

    
  
  * When creating a new table, the creation of an index fails when the table name contains special characters.

    
  
  * When creating new simulation data, the export object cannot be selected after switching the schema.

    
  
  * When the table comment is empty, the modification of the table does not take effect.

    
  
  * The connection configuration is copied to the command line, the generated syntax of command line error when the tenant is empty.

    
  

  

* SQL execution

  * In Oracle mode, double quotes are used for IN value conversion.

    
  
  * In Oracle mode, 

    a syntax error is reported due to a statement splitting error when the SQL/PL comment contains a semicolon.
    
  
  * The insert statement generated by adding columns in the result set contains the ODC internal field __ODC_INTERNAL_ROWID__.

    
  
  * The execution plan of OceanBase V3.2.3 cannot be viewed.

    
  

  

* PL object

  * The stored procedure of OceanBase V3.2.1 cannot be modified.

    
  
  * `dbms_job` cannot run through the query result delivery when using the run task.

    
  
  * In some scenarios, PL and anonymous blocks cannot be debugged.

    
  
  * An error is reported when the stored procedure has merge.

    
  

  

* Tool

  * In Oracle mode, the command line window cannot be connected when the username is lowercase.

    
  

  

* Other modules

  * When changing the password, an error with the number of remaining attempts will be displayed on the pop-up window if the old password is incorrectly filled.

    
  

  




Known issues 
---------------------------------

* OBServers of the x86 architecture do not support the debugging of functions with output parameters.

  

* OBServers of the ARM architecture do not support the debugging of PL objects.

  

* Debugging of PL objects that contain composite data types such as cursors, records, and collections and user-defined data types is not supported.

  

* Debugging of PL objects that contain the CLOB data type causes the OBServer to generate a core dump.

  

* The size of a schema or data to be exported cannot exceed 2 GB. Otherwise, the exported data will be incomplete.

  

* In the details of export tasks, the total number of records of the exported objects is not accurate but depends on the views of OceanBase Database.

  

* The size of a schema or data to be imported cannot exceed 2 GB. Otherwise, the file cannot be uploaded.

  

* Unless you set the `ob_enable_trace_log` parameter to `on`, only the execution plans of the SQL statements executed for the first time are displayed.

  



